--- Page 1 ---
Computer Session
Using the Brookes computer systems
1

--- Page 2 ---
Table of Contents
Logging In …….…….…….…….…….……….. Page 03
Accessing and Navigating Moodle …….……. Page 05
Objectives …….…….…….…….…….……..… Page 10
Exploring the Brookes Webpages …….…….. Page 12
Student Societies and Sport …………………. Page 21
Email ……………………………………………. Page 23
Wi-Fi ……………………………………………. Page 30
Library ………………………………………….. Page 32
IT Support On Site ……………………………. Page 37
Final Words ……………………………………. Page 39
2
Return to contents

--- Page 3 ---
Logging In
Return to contents 3

--- Page 4 ---
Logging In to the Pooled Computers
The first step is to log in to one of the Brookes computers:
● Username: your student number.
● Password: your “usual” password.
Many Brookes systems use these credentials — make sure you remember them!
4
Return to contents

--- Page 5 ---
Accessing and Navigating Moodle
Return to contents 5

--- Page 6 ---
Accessing Moodle
Moodle is our Learning Management System
(LMS), where you will access most of your
module content and submit certain
assignments.
To access Moodle, open a web browser and
navigate to:
moodle.brookes.ac.uk
You will be greeted by the login screen (right),
where you will use the “usual” credentials.
6
Return to contents

--- Page 7 ---
Navigating Moodle
Once you log in to Moodle, you will see your “dashboard”, which contains links to
your various module Moodle pages. On these module Moodle pages you will find,
for example:
● Lecture slides.
● Practical class materials.
● Assessment briefs.
You can also access your module Moodle pages from the “My Courses” tab:
7
Return to contents

--- Page 8 ---
Searching Moodle
In addition to the “My Courses” tab, you can navigate to various other tabs.
Explore, in your own time, but one thing to note is the “Home” tab where you will
find a search box to search all Moodle pages.
Note: there are other search boxes, some search all course and some only search
your own.
8
Return to contents

--- Page 9 ---
Task 1
We will now find the materials for today.
To access a copy of these slides, which contains the instructions for today’s
session:
● Navigate to the “Computing Induction Materials - ECM” Moodle page.
● Within the page navigate to the section titled “2026/27 Induction Resources”.
● Download the “Computer session slides”.
Note: there are a number of similarly titled pages, so be careful!
9
Return to contents

--- Page 10 ---
Objectives
Return to contents 10

--- Page 11 ---
Session Objectives
For the remainder of this session, we will:
● Explore parts of the Brookes website.
● Find the details of the induction week.
● Briefly explore the Google@Brookes suite.
● Explain the various wireless networks at
Oxford Brookes.
● Understand some of the services available
via the library.
● Understand how and where to find IT
support for University IT systems.
11
Return to contents

--- Page 12 ---
Exploring the Brookes Webpages
Return to contents 12

--- Page 13 ---
The Student Homepage
When you first open a browser on a pooled computer, it automatically navigates to
the Brookes homepage: www.brookes.ac.uk
By clicking “Menu” in the top right and then “Students” in the pop out window in the
top right, you navigate to the Student Homepage: www.brookes.ac.uk/students
13
Return to contents

--- Page 14 ---
Student Homepage I
The Student Homepage:
● has many useful links;
● is likely a good place to look for answers to questions not specifically related
to your modules or degree programme.
14
Return to contents

--- Page 15 ---
Student Homepage II
The Student Homepage has three columns of helpful links:
15
Return to contents

--- Page 16 ---
Student Homepage III
The leftmost column links:
● Moodle login: links to Moodle, where we have already been.
● Student information login: links to where, for example:
○ You will find your personal information (and where you can update it).
○ You can access your student record and results page.
○ You can submit request forms, such as Exceptional Circumstances requests.
● Email login: links to Gmail.
○ We will look at this in more detail later.
○ Your gmail account is: student_number@brookes.ac.uk e.g. 12345678@brookes.ac.uk.
16
Return to contents

--- Page 17 ---
Student Homepage IV
The central column links:
● Library: links to the University Library web pages.
○ We will look at this in more detail later.
○ The library is both physical and digital.
● IT Services: links to the University team that provides and manages the
University’s computer facilities, for example:
○ How to get your devices on the wireless networks — more on this later.
○ Use of the printers around campus.
○ Access to software.
● Accomodation: links to Accomodation pages.
17
Return to contents

--- Page 18 ---
Student Homepage V
The rightmost column links:
● Student Hub: an on-campus and online space where you can ask questions
and access support.
● Information for New Students: links to enrolment and induction information.
● Semester Dates: links to the University published semester dates at least a
couple of years in advance.
○ Includes semester start and end dates.
○ Includes examination periods.
18
Return to contents

--- Page 19 ---
Student Homepage VI
The homepage contains many more links, for example:
● Student Support Coordinators.
● Live bus departures.
● Student Ambassadors.
● Brookes Sport.
● Brookes Union.
19
Return to contents

--- Page 20 ---
Task 2
● Navigate to the Student Homepage.
● Click on “Information for new students”.
● Scroll down to “Arrivals and Induction”.
● Find the induction timetable for your course.
● Find the time and location for the Freshers' Fair.
20
Return to contents

--- Page 21 ---
Student Societies and Sport
Return to contents 21

--- Page 22 ---
Brookes Sport and Brookes Union
The student’s union is called Brookes Union:
● Runs the student societies.
● Provides independent help and advice.
● Can be found at: www.brookesunion.org.uk/societies.
Student sport is run through Brookes Sport:
● Offers range of recreational and competitive sporting
opportunities for staff and students.
● Provides access to facilities, e.g. gym & climbing wall.
● Can be found at: www.brookes.ac.uk/brookes-sport/.
22
Return to contents

--- Page 23 ---
Email
Return to contents 23

--- Page 24 ---
Email at Oxford Brookes
Email is the main method of communication you will have with staff at Brookes.
To access your email, either:
● use the link on the student homepage, or
● navigate to mail.google.com.
Sign in using:
● Your email student_number@brookes.ac.uk.
● Your “usual” password.
Your Brookes Google account can be used like any other Google account.
24
Return to contents

--- Page 25 ---
Task 3
● Access Gmail: gmail.com.
● Log in to your emails.
● Email a copy of these slides to yourself. Give the email a useful subject line
and body, to help your chances of finding it via search.
● Consider adding a label to the
email you just sent yourself
(and labelling future emails).
Labels can be found in the
Left pane of Gmail.
25
Return to contents

--- Page 26 ---
Sending effective emails
When sending emails to staff please observe the following:
● Send from your Google@Brookes account (so we know it’s really you!).
● If asking about a module please include the module name and/or code.
● Try to explain yourself as clearly as you can (please don’t use slang).
● Try to keep your email short.
○ If covering several different issues, consider whether it might be better to split these up into
separate emails.
● Staff are usually busy and might take up to three working days to respond.
26
Return to contents

--- Page 27 ---
More about Google@Brookes
Your Google@Brookes account offers you much more than email:
● Access to the Google suite:
○ Calendar — your classes and other important events will appear automatically, but consider
creating additional events.
○ Colaboratory, Docs, Sheets, Slides — work collaboratively on group projects.
○ Drive — to create backups of your work that you can share.
○ Gmail.
○ Meet — virtual meetings with others, including staff during “student drop-in hours”.
● It may be used as a login for third-party applications (via Google OAuth).
27
Return to contents

--- Page 28 ---
Task 4
● Access your Google calendar by either:
○ Navigating to calendar.google.com.
○ With Gmail (or another Google page) open, clicking the
icon of nine dots arranged in a three by three grid and
selecting “Calendar” (right).
● Try adjusting the view to each of “day”, “week”,
and “month”.
● Use the search bar to view the calendar of the
staff member running this session. Can you
find their “drop-in hours”?
28
Return to contents

--- Page 29 ---
Securing and Saving Your Work
Never save your work to the C: drive of the pooled computers, because this work
will likely be lost when you log out.
Consider instead of saving your work to:
● A portable storage device.
● The cloud (for example Google Drive).
29
Return to contents

--- Page 30 ---
Wi-Fi
Return to contents 30

--- Page 31 ---
Wi-Fi at Oxford Brookes
At Oxford Brookes, there are several networks, including:
● eduroam — used at institutions globally and provides thousands of hotspots
across more than 100 countries. Accessible across campus. Also used by
University of Oxford and so is accessible across the city.
● OBU-wireless — in-house corporate network. Accessible in many parts of
Headington campus (including NHHB).
● Wifinity — wired and wireless networks in managed Halls of Residences.
31
Return to contents

--- Page 32 ---
Library
Return to contents 32

--- Page 33 ---
University Library
The University Library is accessible physically in JHB and digitally:
● Using the link on the Student Homepage.
● Visiting www.brookes.ac.uk/library.
On the library homepage, you can:
● Search for books — discover availability (physical & digital in eBook format).
● Search for module reading lists.
● Access specific resources for your particular degree programme.
33
Return to contents

--- Page 34 ---
Task 5
● Navigate to the library homepage and search for the COMP4004 reading list.
● Find how many copies of “Starting out with Python” by Tony Gaddis the library
has and how many are available.
34
Return to contents

--- Page 35 ---
Loaning an item
● Your Student ID card is your library card and is used to make loans at the self
service machines.
● Most items are one week loan and undergraduates can loan up to 20 items.
● Most loans will be automatically renewed up to 25 times:
○ If your items have automatically renewed you will not be notified.
○ Items that are on hold for someone else will not be automatically renewed and must be
returned. The library will email you if an items must be returned.
○ Library uses your email to contact you.
35
Return to contents

--- Page 36 ---
Placing a hold
If an item you would like to loan is currently unavailable or you would simply like to
reserve it, you can place a hold:
● Navigate to the item page (for example by finding it on a reading list) and
clicking on the “Place Hold” button on the right hand side of the page:
36
Return to contents

--- Page 37 ---
IT Support On Site
Return to contents 37

--- Page 38 ---
IT Support On Site at Oxford Brookes
● IT Services provide support and information for all University IT systems:
○ www.brookes.ac.uk/it
○ service.brookes.ac.uk/sp
○ 01865 48 3311
● Computing lecturers do not administer the University’s computer systems
and will not be able to help with issues such as lost passwords.
● Specialist facilities such as the robotics lab or engineering facilities have their
own technical support.
38
Return to contents

--- Page 39 ---
Final Words
Return to contents 39

--- Page 40 ---
Final Words for Today
● As a general rule, if you have questions always ask.
● Make sure you know your timetable and when your tutors’ drop-in hours are.
● Work through the Health and Safety, Use of AI, and Academic Integrity
courses on Moodle.
● Enjoy being a student!
40
Return to contents