--- Page 1 ---
Introductory Subject Talks
BSc Information Technology for Business (direct entry) - ITB
BSc Computing (direct entry) - CMP

--- Page 2 ---
Welcome to Oxford Brookes!
Lucia Sagredo
Third Year Tutor for Computing
lucia.sagredo@brookes.ac.uk

--- Page 3 ---
Do you already know the people around you?
Say hi and introduce yourself

--- Page 4 ---
Useful Abbreviations
ML
AA
YT
SSC
Do you already know any?
ISAT
CAD
ECM
HST

--- Page 5 ---
Useful Abbreviations
ML = Module Leader (not necessarily the same as a Lecturer or a Supervisor)
AA = Academic Advisor / Academic Advising
YT = Year Tutor
SSC = Student Support Coordinator
ISAT = International Student Advice Team
CAD = Centre for Academic Development
ECM = (School of) Engineering, Computing and Mathematics
HST = (Faculty of) Health, Science and Technology

--- Page 6 ---
What is an Academic Adviser?
Your Dedicated Academic Mentor Academic Development & Progress
A designated member of academic staff Meets with you to review feedback on
within your department who supports your coursework, discuss academic performance,
academic journey from enrollment to and guide module choices.
graduation.
Goal Setting & Future Planning Policy & Regulation Guidance
Helps align your current studies with Assists you in navigating academic
long-term aspirations, such as postgraduate regulations, course requirements, and
study, placements, or career pathways. university processes.

--- Page 7 ---
Academic Advising sessions
Group sessions with your Academic Adviser
on weeks 4, 8 and 12, each semester
(They’ll appear in your calendar)
For 1:1 use their calendar drop-ins or email them

--- Page 8 ---
Year 3 Academic Advisers
Artificial Intelligence
Alexander Rast
Information Technology for Business
David Lightfoot (Exchange Students)
Lucia Sagredo Computer Science (Also Third-Year Tutor)
Mark Green Computer Science
Mudassar Aslam Computer Science for Cyber Security
Peter Marshall (Final Year Entry Programmes) (Also Programme Lead)
Tjeerd Olde Scheper Computer Science
Tereza Wolf-Jackson (Final Year Entry Programmes)

--- Page 9 ---
Staff at ECM
This link contains contact information (and photos) of staff at ECM

--- Page 10 ---
New students
This link has lots of information, including:
❏ Complete your online
enrolment
❏ Complete your Right to Study
checks
❏ Find your course induction
schedule
❏ Access our online platforms
❏ Register your modules
❏ Collect your student card
Events calendar New student checklist

--- Page 11 ---
Tips if you are new to the UK

--- Page 12 ---
New to the UK?
(clickable links)

Support & Guidance
MANDATORY
International Student Advice
Right to Study Checks
Team ISAT
Ensure you complete checks for personal
documents and ongoing attendance.
Your dedicated support network providing
comprehensive pre-arrival resources and
transition guidance:
● Welcome activities & university life 
OPTIONAL ACTIVITIES
● Opening a bank account
Trips & Social Events
● Registering for healthcare & SIM cards
Explore the UK and build your community with
a variety of exciting organized excursions.

--- Page 13 ---
The "70% First-Class"
Benchmark
70%+
First-Class Honours 1st
In many global systems, 70% is considered a
average mark. In the UK university system, 70% or
above represents excellence and is the threshold
for the highest degree classification.
Marks above 80% are rare and denote publishable
quality or outstanding mastery.

--- Page 14 ---
UK Degree Classification Breakdown
Classification Mark Range Descriptor Global Equivalent (Approx.)
First-Class 1st 70%  100% Exceptional analysis, novel code, critical thinking GPA 3.7  4.0 / Grade A
Upper Second
60%  69% Strong work, comprehensive, minor flaws GPA 3.3  3.6 / Grade B
21
Lower Second
50%  59% Sound core knowledge, missing depth GPA 2.7  3.2 / Grade B
22
Third-Class
40%  49% Basic pass, limited analysis/features GPA 2.0  2.6 / Grade C
3rd
Fail Below 40% Insufficient mastery or non-submission Fail / Grade F

--- Page 15 ---
Keys to Achieving 1st & 2:1 Marks
Critical Engineering Academic Literature Decode Rubrics
Don't just write code that works. Back up technical decisions with Read the module assessment
Explain why you selected specific academic references and matrix carefully. Tutors grade
algorithms, data structures, or benchmark studies. Cite research directly against learning outcomes
frameworks over alternatives. papers, documentation, and and published rubric criteria.
industry standards.

--- Page 16 ---
Keys to Achieving 1st & 2:1 Marks
Reach out early if you need assessment guidance!
Critical Engineering Academic Literature Decode Rubrics
Don't just write code that works. Back up technical decisions with Read the module assessment
Explain why you selected specific academic references and matrix carefully. Tutors grade
algorithms, data structures, or benchmark studies. Cite research directly against learning outcomes
frameworks over alternatives. papers, documentation, and and published rubric criteria.
industry standards.

--- Page 17 ---
English as an Additional Language?
Don’t rely too heavily on translators, as assessments are not limited to written

coursework.
Communicate with module leaders and lecturers in advance if you need extra time

for 1:1 sessions; making the effort to speak, even slowly at first, is encouraged.
Actively engaging with English both inside and outside of class will improve your
language skills and your academic grades.
Utilize the automatic subtitles on lecture recordings to aid your understanding.

Do not hesitate to ask for help.
Take advantage of the Centre for Academic Development (CAD) resources, 1:1

tutorials, and available support for academic english writing and language
development

--- Page 18 ---
About your programme

--- Page 19 ---
BSc Computing (direct entry)
COMP6033
COMP6038
Applications and Ethics of
Advanced Interfaces
AI COMP6037
COMP6013
Foundations of Data
Computing Project
COMP6031 Analytics COMP6018
Cloud Computing & Internet Advanced Object Oriented
of Things Programming
Information Technology for Business (direct entry)
COMP6033 BMGT6012
Applications and Ethics of Social Enterprise and
AI COMP6037 Social Innovation
COMP6013
Foundations of Data
Computing Project
COMP6031 Analytics
BMGT6024
Cloud Computing & Internet
Business Ethics
of Things

--- Page 20 ---
It’s not too late to move from CMP to ITB
How strong are your programming skills? We don’t want you to struggle.

--- Page 21 ---
Timetable - Time Edit
The place to find your timetable and rooms.
More on this during the computer practical this afternoon.

--- Page 22 ---
More on our systems during the practical computer session
   
Academic Student Record Learning Google Suite
Advisor Resources
Access and manage Connect to your student
your official student email, calendar, drive,
Find out who your Locate essential
details, registration, and and other productivity
Academic Advisor (AA) materials, slides, and
personal information. tools.
is and how they support coursework instructions
your studies. for your lectures.

--- Page 23 ---
Module Introductions

--- Page 24 ---
COMP6033
Applications and Ethics of AI
BSc/MSci Artificial Intelligence
BSc Information Technology for Business (incl. Final Year Entry)
BSc Computing (Final Year Entry)
Matthias Rolf
mrolf@brookes.ac.uk

--- Page 25 ---
Module aim and scope
● Learn about the risks and benefits of scientific and business
applications of Artificial Intelligence such as Natural Language
Processing, face recognition and autonomous moral machines
https://www.technologyreview.com/2023/03/22/1070167/these-news-tool-let-you-see-for-yourself-how-biased-ai-image-models-are/

--- Page 26 ---
Learning outcomes
1. Critically evaluate the ethical and societal risks and
opportunities in the application of AI technologies in a
given context
2. Create an AI software solution
3. Experimentally evaluate an AI software solution
4. Demonstrate ability to effectively function collaboratively in
small groups to analyse an AI software application

--- Page 27 ---
Assessment
● Coursework 1 (30%):
○ Risks and benefits of
autonomous driving
○ Group-work
● Coursework 2 (70%):
○ Real-world example of bias and
discrimination in criminal justice
○ Investigate and address the
bias with a new AI solution

--- Page 28 ---
Schedule
Week Topic Assessment
1 Introduction to Ethics in AI
2 AI for Autonomous Driving
3 Professional Ethics & Risk Analysis
4 Autonomous moral decision making
5 Consolidation
6 AI for estimating risk Coursework 1 (30%, group)
7 Bias and Fairness
8 Face Recognition
9 Explainable AI
10 Consolidation
11 Natural Language Processing
12 Case Study - AI in heritage Coursework 2 (70%)

--- Page 29 ---
COMP6038
Advanced Interfaces
BSc (Hons) Computer Science
BSc (Hons) Computing (Final Year Entry)
BSc (Hons) Artificial Intelligence
Tjeerd olde Scheper
tvolde-scheper@brookes.ac.uk

--- Page 30 ---
Module aim and scope
● The module Advanced Interfaces aims to introduce the student to the
current level of active work and research in the field of Robotics,
eXtended Reality, Virtual Reality and Augmented Reality.
● The module will be taught in a project active manner, where different
types of devices will be evaluated, compared and developed.
● This module is also intended to help you understand the potential and
limitations of these interface devices, and study the implications of
their use in a wider context.
● Students have also found the explicit presentation of many of the
topics to be useful in practical applications on other modules, during
their project work and after graduation.

--- Page 31 ---
Learning outcomes
After successful completion of this module, you will have acquired several useful skills and
extended your knowledge of virtual reality, augmented reality, and robotics, significantly. In
particular, you will have learned about:
1. Design and develop solutions to complex problems that demonstrate a deep
understanding of the technologies deployed and utilises them effectively to meet
societal, user, customer and business needs.
2. Research, design, develop and evaluate a suitable application using AR/VR/HRI
technologies that pays due regard to relevant Human Computer Interface Design
Principles.
3. Employ project and quality management techniques to allow a team to work through the
full development process from analysing criteria to deployment and maintenance of a
system
4. Evaluate and assess ethical, societal, professional and legal impacts of virtual and
physical spaces and use this knowledge to develop systems that meet this criteria.

--- Page 32 ---
Assessment
Coursework Word count Learning Learning Weighting
hours outcomes
assessed
Design Report: Written assignment 1000 18 1, 3 30%
(Group)
Final Report: Written assignment 2000 36 1,2,3,4 60%
(Group)
Set Exercise: Presentation (Must Pass) 0.5 hours 6 1,2,3,4 10%

--- Page 33 ---
Tentative Schedule
Week Topic Staff Outline Practical
1 Introduction FW Introduction to Advanced Intro to Unity
Interfaces and Technologies
2 Augmented Reality 1 FW Hardware & devices and toolkits Intro to the devices
3 Virtual Reality 1 MG Introduction to Meta and VR Meta Quest 3
4 Foundations Robotics SE Introduction to Robotics, the devices and toolkits Using RoboStudio
5 Consolidation Guest Team developing mini-project Submission De-
Speaker sign report
6 Virtual Reality 2 MG Requirements and coding VR Unity
7 Augmented Reality 2 FW Volumetric AR AR coding
8 Robotics 2 SE Inverse Kinematics Kinematics & Map-
9 Usability FW Measuring and assessing ping
usability of technology Case Studies
10 Advanced XR Guest TBD Work on Project
Speaker
11 Consolidation Team development and revision
12 Demonstration Final report submission

--- Page 34 ---
COMP6037
DATA ANALYTICS
BSc. Information Technology for Business
BSc. Information Technology for Business (Final Year Entry)
BSc. Computing (Final Year Entry)
TEREZA WOLF-JACKSON
t.wolf-jackson@brookes.ac.uk

--- Page 35 ---
Module aim and scope
This module will cover two important aspects of Data
Science: data analysis and data visualisation.
In semester 1, you will study the basics of the R programming
language, hypothesis testing and regression analysis. In
semester 2, you will deepen your R skills and learn how to
plan and create visualisations of large and complex data sets.
You will work to develop your critical and analytical thinking
as well as design skills.

--- Page 36 ---
Learning outcomes
1. Identify and integrate data of various types from a variety
of sources, and make informed judgements about their
use in data science research.
2. Demonstrate understanding of the different methodologies
for data gathering; data processing; data exploration, data
analysis, and data visualisation.
3. Apply different data science tools to create appropriate
visualisations of high dimensionality data.

--- Page 37 ---
Assessment
Word Count / Time Limit Weighting %
Semester 1
Class test: A computer-based class test and a structured written 3.5 hours 40%
report completed during the test. Students are expected to
prepare and submit a notes booklet which will be printed for them
and available to them during the class test.
Semester 2
Written Assignment: A written report that identifies suitable 2000 words 50%
datasets, explores and processes them, and details the plan and
execution of an appropriate visualisation
Oral presentation: A presentation of the visualisation created for 5 minutes + 3 minutes Q&A 10%
the written assignment and the process behind it.

--- Page 38 ---
Semester 1 Schedule
Week Topic Assessment
1 Introduction to Module, Introduction to Data Science
2 Introduction to R Programming
3 Data Sources and Functions in R
4 Mathematical Foundations for Data Analysis
5 Consolidation: R Practice and Maths Problems
6 Exploratory Data Analysis
7 Correlation and Causation, Hypothesis Testing
8 Data Research
9 Regression Analysis
10 Regression Analysis, Reporting Results
11 Consolidation: Class Test Revision and Notes Preparation
12 Class Test Class Test

--- Page 39 ---
Semester 2 Schedule
Week Topic Assessment
1 Introduction to Data Visualisation, dplyr and ggplot2
2 Importing Data, Working with Dates
3 Data Manipulation and Pre-Processing
4 Visualising Discrete and Continuous Variables
5 Consolidation: Feedback, Presentation Practice
6 Cuts and Window Functions
7 Data Joins, Visualising to Compare
8 Colours and Labels
9 Interactive Visualisations with Plotly
10 Faceting, Coursework Feedback
11 Visualising Geospatial Data, Coursework Feedback
12 Presentations Coursework

--- Page 40 ---
COMP6018
Advanced Object Oriented Programming
BSc (Hons) Computer Science
BSc (Hons) Computing (Final Year Entry)
Shujaat Hussain Kausar
s.kausar@brookes.ac.uk

--- Page 41 ---
Module aim and scope
Aim: To equip students with advanced software engineering
techniques for designing, testing, and maintaining complex
applications using design patterns and robust architecture.
Module Scope: Covers OO principles, MVC, design patterns,
Design by Contract, JUnit testing, modern Java evolution,
and frameworks like .NET.

--- Page 42 ---
Learning outcomes
1. Describe, use and critically evaluate advanced language
features of object-oriented programming languages
2. Create a software artefact by applying the methodologies
of advanced object-oriented programming to a
requirements specification
3. Select and apply a design pattern from one of the major
design patterns to solve a given problem
4. Create appropriate documentation that clearly
communicates the intended behaviour of a program.

--- Page 43 ---
Assessments
1. Coursework: A coursework assignment which you will
need to submit at the end of week 12. (50%)
2. Exam: An time exam at the end of the semester in Week
13/14. (50%)

--- Page 44 ---
Schedule
Week Topic Assessment
1 Review of Object-Orientation
2 Model View Controller
3 Introduction to Design Patterns
4 More Design Patterns
5 Coursework Design Coursework Design due
6 Remaining Design Patterns Feedback on Design
7 Design By Contract and JUnit testing
8 Evolution of Java
9 Security, .NET, Contracts
10 Exam preparation
11 Coursework Q&A
12 Exam preparation/Coursework Q&A Coursework due
13 Exam

--- Page 45 ---
COMP6031
Cloud Computing and Internet of Things
BSc (Hons), MSci Artificial Intelligence
BSc (Hons) Computer Science
BSc (Hons) Computer Science for Cyber Security
BSc (Hons) Computing (Final Year Entry)
BSc (Hons) Information Technology for Business (including Final Year Entry)
Shadi Eltanani
seltanani@brookes.ac.uk

--- Page 46 ---
Module aim and scope
● This module will look at two key technologies:
I. For Cloud Computing, the aim is to explore the key issues and
concepts of Cloud Computing and gain an understanding of the
applicability of cloud-based approaches.
II. For the Internet of Things (IoT) the aim is to provide knowledge and
information about the latest trends and developments in the IoT.
● Recent advances in the enabling technologies and programming
frameworks suitable for an IoT environment will be introduced and
consideration will also be given to the management of large volumes
of distributed data and to the privacy and security of the data.

--- Page 47 ---
Learning outcomes
1. Critically analyse recent developments and trends in cloud computing and Internet of Things
technologies.
2. Design, construct and evaluate Internet of Things and Cloud Computing solutions.
3. Design an integrated cloud and IoT system specifying appropriate technologies to address a
real-world requirement.
4. Analyse the commercial implications, sustainability and risks associated with deploying IoT
and Cloud based systems.
5. Work in a group to apply the knowledge and skills developed in this module.

--- Page 48 ---
Assessment

--- Page 49 ---
Tentative
Schedule

--- Page 50 ---
COMP6013
Computing Project
BSc (Hons), MSci Artificial Intelligence
BSc (Hons) Computer Science
BSc (Hons) Computer Science for Cyber Security
BSc (Hons) Computing (Final Year Entry)
BSc (Hons) Information Technology for Business (including Final Year Entry)
James Maunder
jmaunder@brookes.ac.uk

--- Page 51 ---
Module aim and scope
Aim: to enable you to produce a substantial piece of work on a topic of
special interest related to your programme of study.
You will consolidate knowledge and strengthen skills acquired through
your study, as well as develop new knowledge and skills.
You should have received emails linking to a list of possible projects,
staff areas of expertise, and a Google form to provide your
preferences. If not, let me know!
Lectures in Semester 1 will assist you with various aspects.

--- Page 52 ---
Learning outcomes
1. Create, design, manage, plan, carry out, and evaluate a project involving the solution of
a practical problem set in an appropriate social and economic context, taking into
account other relevant factors such as risk.
2. Apply practical and analytical skills acquired in the programme to the investigation of a
substantial topic.
3. Apply the scientific method and report findings using accepted formalisms.
4. Demonstrate the ability to carry out a substantial piece of work independently and
critically evaluate the student’s achievements and their own personal development.
5. Use appropriate technologies and trustworthy information sources, such as the ACM
Digital Library to find, critically evaluate and utilise both non specialist and technical
information pertinent to the project.
6. Demonstrate an awareness of and work in a manner guided by the legal, professional,
ethical, security and social issues relevant to the IT and telecommunications industry.

--- Page 53 ---
Assessment
More details will be provided in the first lecture next week, but
as part of this module you will submit:
● A proposal
● A progress report
● A mock presentation
● The final report (or dissertation)
● A final presentation

--- Page 54 ---
Schedule (Semester 1)
Week Topic Assessment
1 Introduction
2 Literature reviews
3 Proposal, using the library, and referencing
4 Using LaTeX, project management, and ethics Proposal
5 Consolidation Q&A
6 Source management and version control (Git)
7 Testing and evaluation
8 Progress report, academic writing, and professional issues
9 Academic presentations
10 Employability
11 Consolidation Q&A
12 No lecture Progress report (Week 13)

--- Page 55 ---
Questions?

--- Page 56 ---
Lunch break!
Keep making new friends
(see you at 1:30 in NHHB - our new building on the other
side of the road - for a Practical computer session)
Go to NHHB 1.17 first - they’ll send you to NHHB 2.13