--- Page 1 ---
Module Guide
Mathematics for Computing
MATH4004
Level 4 15 Credits
Module Leader: Lucia Sagredo
2026-27

--- Page 2 ---
Purpose of this guide
The purpose of this Module Guide is to provide you with specific information that
underpins the design, delivery and management of this module. It is your
responsibility to familiarise yourself with the contents of this Module Guide and to talk
to your seminar tutor if you have any questions.
This isn’t the only guide available to you. Alongside this guide you will also have
access to the University Handbook which will provide you with information that is
central to your studies, including policies and regulations, student support and
wellbeing and all the services available to you through Student Support.
You will also be given a Programme Handbook which will detail the design, delivery
principles and management of your programme. It will also provide you with an
overview of your key contacts for your programme of study and list all the modules
you will be / might be studying throughout the duration of your award.
Module Guide 2026-27 1

--- Page 3 ---
Contents
Module Guide 0
Purpose of this guide 1
Contents 2
Module introduction 3
Module leader contact details 3
Library Support 3
Changes made to the module (if any) in response to student and other feedback 3
Module Study Plan 4
Module syllabus 5
Recommended reading list 5
Assessment information 6
Coursework 6
Presenting coursework for assessment 6
Submission date and instructions 6
ISP Extensions 7
Artificial Intelligence and its use in this assessment 7
Backing Up Work 7
Marking and moderation of your work 8
Feedback 8
Examinations 9
Learning outcomes assessed 9
Format 9
Specimen examination paper 9
Module Guide 2026-27 2

--- Page 4 ---
Module introduction
Module leader contact details
Name: Lucia Sagredo
Room: NHBB 1.01, Headington Campus
Telephone: +44 (0)1865 534856
Email: lucia.sagredo@brookes.ac.uk
Office hours: two per week, in Lucia’s calendar
Library Support
Contact the library for help and support with resources and referencing for your programme.
You can find more in-depth library information on the Course Resource Help page for your
subject.
Changes made to the module (if any) in response to student and
other feedback
Students enjoy this module, and module evaluations have not highlighted any areas
for change. Of course, we are always open to your feedback and welcome
comments at any time.
Module Guide 2026-27 3

--- Page 5 ---
Module Study Plan
Week Topic Reading/Activity Deadlines
1 Chapter 1: Arithmetic Lectures and seminars
and Algebra
2 Chapter 2: Sets Lectures and seminars
3 Chapter 3: Probability Lectures and seminars
4 Chapter 4: Relations Lectures and seminars
5 Consolidation Seminars
6 Chapter 5: Lectures and seminars
Combinatorics
7 Chapter 6: Graphs Lectures and seminars Assignment 1 due
(part 1)
8 Chapter 6: Graphs Lectures and seminars
(part 2)
9 Chapter 7: Digraphs Lectures and seminars
10 Chapter 8: Matrices Lectures and seminars
(part 1)
11 Chapter 8: Matrices Lectures and seminars
(part 2)
12 Revision and exam Lectures and seminars Assignment 2 due
preparation
13-14 Exam
Module Guide 2026-27 4

--- Page 6 ---
Module syllabus
Module Aims
The main aim of the module is to introduce students to those key mathematical
concepts that underpin computer science with applications to computing. This
module is intended to equip students with knowledge of the language and structures
of discrete mathematics and its relevance to a wide range of computing applications.
The concepts discussed in the module underpin many of the computing topics
developed in advanced modules.
Learning outcomes
On successful completion of this module, students will be able to:
1. Understand and solve problems in a broad range of mathematical topics,
demonstrating skills in logical thinking and abstract reasoning
2. Demonstrate knowledge and application of mathematical tools and techniques
applicable to computing
3. Understand and demonstrate knowledge of a variety of applications of
mathematics in computing
4. Demonstrate enhanced transferable skills in self-management,
communication and information technology
Outline Syllabus
1. Arithmetic and Algebra
2. Sets
3. Probability
4. Relations
5. Combinatorics
6. Graphs
7. Digraphs
8. Matrices
Recommended reading list
Follow this link to obtain the reading list from the Library for recommended books.
Module Guide 2026-27 5

--- Page 7 ---
Assessment information
This module follows the principles of the University’s Assessment and feedback
policy developed in conjunction with the Student Union, to ensure good practice and
transparency in assessment and feedback processes. The Assessment and
feedback policy can be found in your Programme Handbook or on your Programme’s
Brookes Virtual site.
Please note: the Institutional University Handbook which will provide you with
information that is central to your studies, including policies and regulations, student
support and wellbeing and all the services available to you through Student Support.
The core information is also available on Moodle via the drop-down menu under
‘Student Help’.
Coursework
The coursework for this module consists of two sets of take-home assignments with
set exercises. Each take-home assignment is worth 25%. So, in total, the
coursework is worth 50% of the module grade. The briefs can be found in Moodle.
Presenting coursework for assessment
You may choose to typeset your work for submission. However, handwritten work,
whether on paper, scanned, or created digitally on a tablet or similar device, is
acceptable. Present your work in a clear, legible format.
If scanning your work on paper, please use the scanners on campus (it’s free and
recommended – they can scan multiple pages as a single PDF); alternatively, you
may use a good-quality camera, provided there are no shadows and the image is
well-focused.
Submitted work should omit names to ensure anonymity.
A cover sheet (provided in Moodle) should be at the front of your submission.
Submission date and instructions
Your work must be uploaded in PDF format to the submission box on Moodle by the
time and date specified on the assignment briefs on Moodle. It should contain the
relevant cover sheet and follow the presentation guidelines mentioned above.
Give the file(s) which you intend to upload a name which begins with your student
number. For example:
‘12345678_CW1_MATH4004’
University policy is that the default is that all assessment submissions will be online.
Any cases for exception to this policy need to have appropriate approval at Faculty
level. Exceptions to this rule are published on the Faculty Google site
Please ensure you submit your assignment no later than the deadline set above
(these are fixed deadlines, but students may exceptionally secure an extension if last
minute untoward circumstances affect your ability to submit on time). Please see
your Programme Handbook for more details. Please note the use of this extension
is monitored and restrictions in place for overuse.
Module Guide 2026-27 6

--- Page 8 ---
The Blue Marking Card adjustment is only available to students who have an
Inclusive Support Plan (ISP) specifying this adjustment and will usually be added
automatically
Recommendations for Reasonable Adjustments are made in accordance with the
provisions of the Equality Act 2010. These are detailed in Inclusive Support Plans
(ISPs) and need to be implemented unless there is a clear rationale for this not being
possible, in which case we are accountable as an HEI for this decision. Alternatives
should be considered, and further advice sought from the Inclusive Support Service
to ensure we are compliant, consistent, and following best practice.
ISP Extensions
If you have an Inclusive Support Plan you can check whether you have coursework
extensions and how many weeks on your Student Information page. Contact your
module leader if you are unclear about your deadlines.
Do not confuse coursework extensions agreed as part of an Inclusive Support Plan
(ISP) with Exceptional Circumstances. There are no limits to how often you can use
the extensions agreed as part of your ISP.
There are final submission dates which no extensions can go beyond. These
are the same for extensions agreed through the Exceptional Circumstances
Procedure or an ISP. You can find this on the Exceptional Circumstances website. If
you are not sure whether your ISP coursework extension would go past the final
hand-in date, always contact your Module Leader to confirm your deadline.
Coursework extensions included as part of your Inclusive Support Plan (ISP) can be
used for the two coursework assignments.
Artificial Intelligence and its use in this assessment
This link will take you to guidance about writing an acknowledgement of AI in your
assignments. This link will take you to the Moodle course Use of Artificial
Intelligence.
For all the assessments of this module,
● You must not use AI tools.
Backing Up Work
Generally, IT-related problems are not considered valid grounds for exceptional
circumstances. This is because students are expected to back up their work
regularly via their Google Drive, so that they can continue accessing their files on
other devices. If you experience IT issues, you are expected to take prompt action to
remedy these, for example, by raising a ticket with the IT Service Desk; taking your
technology for repair or contacting your faculty if you need support with faculty-
provided software.
If your own device is faulty, over 1,000 open access PCs are available for use on
campus, or you may borrow a laptop for up to four hours from one of the self-service
cabinets on campus.
Module Guide 2026-27 7

--- Page 9 ---
Marking and moderation of your work
Following internal moderation, a sample of work is reviewed by the External
Examiner for the programme to ensure that the standards applied are comparable to
those at other institutions. To read how your work is moderated please go to your
Programme Handbook for details.
Feedback
Feedback on your work will be provided in a range of ways at various times
throughout this module, and different feedback will serve slightly different purposes.
Feedback is designed to support your learning and help you to improve subsequent
work, so you need to engage and get the most out of the feedback provided.
Please note that feedback is provided throughout the module, not just on formal
tasks. It will be provided on your work and contribution in class, on the formal
assessment tasks and, in some circumstances, during staff office hours.
If you would like further information about feedback, or how to use it, please talk to
your academic tutor on this module or your Academic Adviser or Programme Lead.
Assessment feedback will normally be provided within three weeks of submission.
Please note that all marks are provisional until they are ratified by an Examination
Committee.
Module Guide 2026-27 8

--- Page 10 ---
Examinations
This module will have a final examination at the end of Semester 2. The final
examination will count for 50% of your final grade.
Learning outcomes assessed
1. Understand and solve problems in a broad range of mathematical topics,
demonstrating skills in logical thinking and abstract reasoning
2. Demonstrate knowledge and application of mathematical tools and techniques
applicable to computing
3. Understand and demonstrate knowledge of a variety of applications of
mathematics in computing
4. Demonstrate enhanced transferable skills in self-management,
communication and information technology
Format
The examination will be a traditional closed-book examination with a formula booklet
and a calculator. The duration is 2 hours.
Specimen examination paper
To help you prepare and understand what you will be given in the examination, the
formula booklet and past papers will be available via Moodle.
Module Guide 2026-27 9