--- Page 1 ---
Computing for Robotic Systems
Programme Handbook 2016-2017
Fin al Award and Exit Awards: CertHE, DipHE, BSc
M odes of study: Full time / Part time
Department of
Computing and
Com munication
Technologies
Faculty of Technology,
Desig n and
Environment
Programme code:
Publication date:
February 2016

--- Page 2 ---


--- Page 3 ---
Contents
Contents 3
1 Welcome 5
1.1 Welcome from the Head of the Department of Computing
and Communication Technologies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
1.2 Welcome from the Subject Coordinator Computing for Robotic
Systems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
1.3 Teaching Team . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
2 Curriculum 11
2.1 Programme Structure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
2.2 Module Content . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
2.3 Professional Bodies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
3 Learning, teaching and assessment 21
3.1 Learning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
3.2 Email . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
3.3 Work Placements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
3.4 Programme Calendar . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
3.5 Assessment Regulations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
3.6 Good Academic Practice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
4 Learning resources 35
4.1 Library . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
4.2 Upgrade . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
4.3 Oxford Brookes Information Solutions . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
4.4 Departmental IT Facilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
3

--- Page 4 ---
Contents
5 Student support and guidance 43
5.1 Sources of help and advice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
5.2 Student Support Coordinators . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
5.3 Academic Advisers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
5.4 Programme Leads . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
5.5 Subject Coordinators . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
5.6 Personal Information Pages . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
5.7 Procedures for notification of sickness or absence . . . . . 48
5.8 Brookes Union . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
5.9 Intellectual Property . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
5.10 Data protection and information security . . . . . . . . . . . 50
5.11 Careers Advice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
5.12 Equality and Diversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
5.13 International Student Advice Team . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
5.14 Student health and wellbeing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
6 Feedback on the quality of the learning experience 59
7 Programme Specification 61
4

--- Page 5 ---
1
Welcome
1.1 Welcome from the Head of the
Department of Computing and
Communication Technologies
Welcome to the department of Computing and Communication Tech-
nologies. You are joining us to study a fast moving and diverse subject
that can form a strong foundation for a creative and exciting career in
computing and robotics. This course is founded on the strong research
focus on robotics within the department, which has both national and
international collaborations in this area. For example, Prof Jochen Steil,
Managing Director of the Research Institute for Cognition and Robotics
at the Bielefeld University, Germany http://www.cor-lab.de/jsteil is
a regular visitor to the department, collaborating both on research and
teaching in robotics. We also collaborate with Prof Richard Hartley, As-
sociate Director of Research at the Australian National University in Ade-
laide.
This handbook contains important information about your programme
of study. You need to read it carefully and keep it with you through-
out your studies. All information about modules, subjects and your per-
sonal progress is available online on your Personal Information Portal
(PIP)page. You can use the information in this handbook, and the online
information on your PIP page, to plan your programme of study. During
Enrolment Week, you will have the opportunity to meet staff and receive
advice on your programme, by attending the programme meetings and
seeing your Subject Coordinator. If you did not attend this meeting, it is
particularly important that you make early contact with your Subject Co-
5

--- Page 6 ---
1. Welcome
ordinator and discuss your programme of study with them. You should
read the programme regulations carefully because it is your responsibil-
ity to ensure that your programme meets the requirements of the subject
area. Of course, your Academic Adviser and Subject Coordinator can
help you plan your modules as you proceed. We hope that you will en-
joy, as well as benefit from your time with us. We shall do all we can
to encourage and support you in your studies and to help you achieve
success on your chosen programme of study.
Dr Nigel T. Crook - Head of Department
6

--- Page 7 ---
1.2. Welcome from the Subject Coordinator Computing for Robotic
Systems
1.2 Welcome from the Subject Coordinator
Computing for Robotic Systems
Welcome to the Computing for Robotic Sys-
tems programme. As the subject coordi-
nator for this course, I am pleased to wel-
come you on this programme. Computing
for Robotic Systems is designed to teach
you about robots, in particular, how to com-
bine the elements of a robotic system into a
functional robot. Robotics is an integration
science, containing elements from different
fields,from low-level mechanical engineering
and computer science, up to high-level de-
sign and psychology. The programme will
teach you how to integrate the hardware us-
ing computer controllers, such that you will
be able to construct a complex robot. You will be using robots and
robotic components, starting in your first year, and throughout the pro-
gramme. You will also be taught the fundamentals of robotics and com-
puter science, such as programming, mathematics, robotics engineer-
ing, and networking. You will graduate from this course with a range of
skills that stride across the wide ranging disciplines involved in robotics,
but with sufficient depth to specialise.
I hope you will enjoy the programme, and look forward to seeing you
in the robotics laboratory.
Dr Tjeerd V. olde Scheper - Subject Coordinator
7

--- Page 8 ---
1. Welcome
1.3 Teaching Team
• Dr Arantza Aldea, Senior Lecturer in Computer Science
Research Interests: Knowledge Representation and Data Mining
aaldea@brookes.ac.uk
• Dr Kashinath Basu, Senior Lecturer in Computing
Research Interests: Cloud Networking, Software Defined Network,
Quality of Service, Energy Efficient Networks.
kbasu@brookes.ac.uk
• Dr Ian Bayley, Senior Lecturer in Computer Science
Research Interests: Software Engineering,Programming Languages,
Cloud Computing, Cybersecurity, Formal Methods
ibayley@brookes.ac.uk
• Dr Bob Champion, Principal Lecturer, Programme Lead for Under-
graduate Computing and Communication Technologies
Research Interests: Computer Assisted Learning
rchampion@brookes.ac.uk
• Mr. Chris Cox, Senior Lecturer in Computing
Research Interests: Distributed and parallel systems
ccox@brookes.ac.uk
• Dr. Nigel Crook, Head of the Department of Computing and Com-
munication Technologies
Research Interests: Machine Learning, Robotics, Dialogue Sys-
tems
ncrook@brookes.ac.uk
• Dr. Fabio Cuzzolin, Reader in Computer Vision
Research Interests: Imprecise probability, belief functions, artificial
intelligence, computer vision, machine learning
fabio.cuzzolin@brookes.ac.uk
• Professor David Duce, Professor of Computer Science
Research Interests: Semantic web,web graphics,visualization and
applications; digital forensics
daduce@brookes.ac.uk
• Dr. Mark Green, Senior Lecturer in Computer Science
Research Interests: Process algebra and parallel processing, for-
8

--- Page 9 ---
1.3. Teaching Team
mal methods, game development, intelligent semantic systems
mgreen@brookes.ac.uk
• Prof. Rachel Harrison, Professor of Computer Science
Research interests: Automated software engineering,empirical soft-
ware engineering, software metrics, evolution, search based soft-
ware engineering, mobile software engineering, social media col-
laborative work
rachel.harrison@brookes.ac.uk
• Dr. Abusaleh Jabir, Reader
Research Interests: Computing and Communication Technologies)
Design, synthesis, tests, and verification of reliable advanced Very
Large Scale Integrated (VLSI)systems,including systems over nano
technology, bio/protein chips, Quantum Cell Automata (QCA), etc.
Also systems and components with verifiability,testability,and fault/error
and attack tolerance
ajabir@brookes.ac.uk
• Dr Samia Kamal, Principal Lecturer for Student Experience
Research interests in digital environments for learning, tools devel-
opment for online and mobile learning, e-learning and m-learning
in developing countries.
skamal@brookes.ac.uk
• Mr. Peter Marshall, Principal Lecturer, Programme Lead for Under-
graduate Computing and Communication Technologies
Research interests in robotics, agent based computing, emergent
behaviour and adaptive systems
pmarshall@brookes.ac.uk
• Dr Clare Martin, Principal Lecturer for Student Experience
Research interests: Algebraic properties of programs,specification
languages, development and evaluation of intelligent tools for the
management of health conditions
cemartin@brookes.ac.uk
• Dr Faye Mitchell,Principal Lecturer,Programme Lead for Postgrad-
uate Computing and Communication Technologies
Research interests: Machine learning,knowledge acquisition & dis-
covery, intelligent digital forensics. the application of AI to real
world problems, intelligent IT systems management
frmitchell@brookes.ac.uk
9

--- Page 10 ---
1. Welcome
• Dr Tjeerd olde Scheper, Senior Lecturer in Computer Science
Research interests: Robotics,Non-linear Dynamic Systems,Emer-
gent behaviour, Artificial intelligence, Computational Neuroscience
tvolde-scheper@brookes.ac.uk
• Dr Muhammad Younas, Senior Lecturer in Computing
Research Interests: Web technologies,information searching/extraction,
pervasive and mobile computing, cloud computing
m.younas@brookes.ac.uk
• Prof Hong Zhu, Professor of Computer Science
Research interests: Software engineering and software develop-
ment methodology,formal methods,software testing,software mod-
elling languages and tool, agent-oriented software development,
cloud computing and Software-as-a-Service
hzhu@brookes.ac.uk
10

--- Page 11 ---
2
Curriculum
2.1 Programme Structure
The diagram with the programme structure is shown on the next page.
11

--- Page 12 ---
2.
Curriculum
Prerequisite module Prerequisite module Prerequisite module
Module Number Module Number Module Number
KEY: Level Core Module Compulsory Module Optional Module You need 8 modules at level 4,
Semester (Level) (Level) (Level) and 16 modules at level 5 and 6,
of which at least 6 must be at level 6.
U08008
Se L m e e ve st l e 4 r 1 P U ro n g d r e a r m st m an in d g in ( g 4) U08007 U08500
U08008
U08009 U08606 Professional
Level 4 Introduction to Discrete Software System Introductory
Semester 2 Object Oriented Mathematics (4) Design (4) Robotics (4)
Programming (4)
U08008 or U08007 U08009 and U08606 U08009 U08500 U08009 U08007 and U08009
U08055 U08025 U08026 U08028 U08868 (1)
Se L m e e ve st l e 5 r 1 Pro a fe n s d s i R o i n s a k l s I s (5 s ) ues of C F o o m un p d u a ta ti t o io n n s (5) Fur O th r e ie r n O te b d ject U08520 De S v o e f l t o w p a m re ent Indep L e e n ve d l e 5 n t ( 5 S ) tudy
Programming (5) with Cand C++ (5)
U08008 or U08007 U08009 U08026 U08009 U08007 U08009 U08007 and U08009
U08521 U08223 U08226 U08048 U08038 U08868 (2)
Level 5 U08027 Robotic Systems Data Advanced Foundations Requirement The Human Computer Independent Study
Semester 2 Current Research (5) Engineering (5) Structures (5) Robotics (5) of Security (5) Specification Interface (5) Level 5 (5)
and SWDesign (5)
U08055
U08065
Optional Work Placement
Placement Experience
U08027 U08223 U08055 U08223 U08223 U08055 and U08009 U08055 and U08009
U08570 U08089 U08186 U08282 U08085 (1) U08088 (1)
Se L m e e ve st l e 6 r 1 R C ob o o g t n ic it s iv e (6) Le M a a rn c i h n i g n e (6) U08599 Ob A je d c v t a O n r c ie e n d ted A A d lg v o a r n it c h e m d s D a a n t d a C a o n m d m Te u a n c ic h a in ti g ng Indep L e e n ve d l e 6 n t ( 6 S ) tudy
Programming (6) Structures (6) Computer Science (6)
U08223 U08521 U08025 U08223 and U08028 U08055 and U08009 U08055 and U08009
U08781 U08571 U08074 U08079 U08085 (2) U08088 (2)
Level 6 Machine Real-time Robotics Reasoning about Optimised Communicating Independent Study
Semester 2 Vision (6) Embedded Robotic Project (6) Functional Programming (6) and Teaching Level 6 (6)
Systems (6) Programs (6) Computer Science (6)
12

--- Page 13 ---
2.1. Programme Structure
The following programme represents a typical sample based on the avail-
able modules for this programme:
U08008
Level 4 Understanding
Semester 1 Programming (4)] U08007 U08500
U08008
U08009 U08606 Professional
Level 4 Introduction to Discrete Software System Introductory
Semester 2 Object Oriented Mathematics (4) Design (4) Robotics (4)
Programming (4)
U08008 or U08007 U08009 and U08606 U08009 U08500
U08055 U08025 U08026
Level 5 Professional Issues Foundations Further Object
Semester 1 and Risks (5) of Computing (5) Oriented U08520
Programming (5)
U08008 or U08007 U08009 U08026
U08521 U08223
Level 5 U08027 Robotic Systems Data Advanced
Semester 2 Current Research (5) Engineering (5) Structures (5) Robotics (5)
U08055
U08065
Optional Work Placement
Placement Experience
U08027 U08223 U08009 U08055
U08570 U08089 U08028
Level 6 Cognitive Machine Software
Semester 1 Robotics (6) Learning (6) Development U08599
with Cand C++ (5)
U08009 U08223 U08521
U08226 U08781 U08571
Level 6 Foundations Machine Real-time Robotics
Semester 2 of Security (5) Vision (6) Embedded Robotic Project (6)
Systems (6)
13

--- Page 14 ---
2. Curriculum
2.2 Module Content
Level 4 Modules
U08007 Professional Software System Design
The primary aim of this course is to develop the foundations for a wide set
of professional and academic skills through the execution of a phased
software development project. Key skills will include team working,soft-
ware system development, and an introduction to the use of methods
and models. The project will focus on providing a practical solution to a
real business opportunity.
U08008 Understanding Programming
This module will give students a working knowledge of the fundamental
concepts of computer programming and will equip them with the essen-
tial skills needed to develop elementary pieces of software. These pro-
gramming skills and concepts will be taught within a broad information
technology context,illustrating how they are relevant to the development
of software that meets certain needs in industry,science and commerce.
U08009 Introduction to Object Oriented Programming
This module covers the fundamentals of object-oriented programming
design, testing and implementation. The module gives the opportunity
to apply these programming principles to software development. The
student will acquire the skills and practices necessary to become confi-
dent in developing.
U08606 Discrete Mathematics
The main aim of the module is to introduce students to those key math-
ematical concepts that underpin computer science with applications to
computing. This module is intended to equip students with knowledge of
the language and structures of discrete mathematics and its relevance to
a wide range of computing applications. The concepts discussed in the
course underpin many of the computing topics developed in advanced
computing modules.
14

--- Page 15 ---
2.2. Module Content
U08500 Introductory Robotics
Introductory Robotics provides the core foundations needed to study
and develop robots. The essential mathematics and its application to a
physical robot are studied, as well as the primary electronics and mea-
surement techniques needed for constructing small scale robotics con-
trol circuitry. Additionally, the programming and design of robotics is
introduced to the student with the aim of providing an initial compre-
hension of robotics systems development. The module is taught in a
hands-on project based manner,with two major projects to develop over
the two semesters. Each semester is divided into blocks of three weeks
which emphasise specific foundation skills needed to complete each ma-
jor project. The module will include the required techniques for scientific
under- standing,basic programming for the robots studied,professional,
legal, ethical and society issues involved in robotics; and the required
background for robotics systems engineering.
Level 5 Modules
U08055 Professional Issues and Computer Risks
Astudy of the professional issues that surround the development of com-
puter systems by the nature of their applications in the context of the
society in which the system to be operated and for a recognised level of
human safety when implemented.
U08025 Foundations of Computation
This module covers the logical and mathematical concepts that underlie
theories of computation. It introduces the notion that some problems
are intrinsically more difficult than others (in a precise sense) and some
problems are unsolvable. The module also aims to introduce students
to the core concepts of formal languages and automata, which play key
roles in the study of programming languages, and to develop practical
skills in manipulating such entities.
U08026 Further Object Oriented Programming
To advance the students’ knowledge and skills in programming and in
particular, the principle concepts of object-orientation. To introduce the
15

--- Page 16 ---
2. Curriculum
student to concepts and language facilities for internationalisation of soft-
ware.
U08027 Current Research
This module introduces students to selected areas of current research
and development from sociological, technological and economic per-
spectives. Students work in groups to carry out a strategic analysis of
a topic working in the style of an industrial technical analysis task force.
Students also carry out an individual analysis of a selected topic. Arange
of topics will be covered in seminars led by specialist and guest lecturers,
with practical experience in the topics. Not all seminars will be directly
applicable to all subject areas,but there will be at least 3 relevant to each
subject area and students will be required to attend them all in order to
develop a broader awareness of current topics and trends.
U08226 Foundations of Security
A study of information, computer and network security and ways that
computer systems can be secured. This module will look at the techno-
logical, ethical and professional issues involved in securing and assess-
ing the security level of a modern networked computer system.
U08520 Advanced Robotics
Advanced Robotics builds on the foundations established in the Intro-
ductory Robotics module. The focus is on the understanding of inte-
grated robotic systems. By studying existing robots, at varying levels
of complexity, the various aspects, such as design, construction, elec-
tronics and program- ming, can be illuminated. Addressing controllers
and the use of sensors and effectors are discussed, not only to develop
a robot, but also to study the requirements and methodologies of engi-
neering systems.
U08521 Robotic Systems Engineering
Robotics Systems Engineering addresses the middleware aspects of robotic
development. Middleware in robotics is more experimental and varied
than middleware in other platforms due to the varied development plat-
forms and hardware available. It will address different robot operating
systems, as well as model based robotic control. These developments
16

--- Page 17 ---
2.2. Module Content
form the basis for further study in low and high level robotic control sys-
tems.
U08223 Data Structures
This module aims to further develop students’ expertise in programming,
to the point where they are confident in the use of recursion,testing,and
manipulation of data structures such as graphs and trees.
U08048 Requirement Specification and Software Design
The module covers the principles,methods and techniques for the speci-
fication and analysis of users’ functional and non-functional requirements
for information systems and software design.
U08028 Software Development with C and C++
This module covers programming in C and C++. It covers C program-
ming before going on to some of the most widely used features of C++
for good program design and practice. After completing this module,the
students are expected to able to write programs in C/C++.
U08038 The Human Computer Interface
This module introduces students to the process of user requirements
capture, interface specification, design, implementation and evaluation.
Students will analyse different aspects of user interfaces, and develop
an interface. The emphasis of the work is on User Centred Design.
U08868 Independent study Level 5
Individual or exceptionally, small group work, on a level 5 topic relevant
to the student’s study of the appropriate field. The topic, supervisor and
assessment scheme will be agreed separately with the subject coordi-
nator and module leader for each student registration.
17

--- Page 18 ---
2. Curriculum
Level 6 Modules
U08599 Robotics Project
An individually supervised project to investigate a chosen problem in
Robotics to form an extended study of a topic selected from a suitable
area, and that involves the solution of a practical problem. The project
is intended to culminate the course giving the students an opportunity
to present the breadth and the depth of knowledge gained in Robotics
Systems.
U08570 Cognitive Robotics
The module will study the architecture and development of robotic sys-
tems that exhibit higher level intelligent behaviour. Such robots are able
to function in a complex world and interact with humans effectively. The
module will link directly with the research projects of the department’s
Cognitive Robotics Laboratory.
U08089 Machine Learning
The module aims to provide the students with the principles of com-
puter learning and its applications. It covers the fundamentals of ma-
chine learning methodologies, implementations and analysis methods
appropriate for machine learning applications. The module will enable
students to analyse a machine learning problem, critically evaluate the
different approaches that are available, and create an effective solution.
U08781 Machine Vision
The module aims to provide the students with the principles of computer
vision and its applications. It covers the fundamentals of human vision
and image formation, low-level image processing, stereo vision, video
analysis, modelling and recognition. The goal is to ensure that students
become familiar with the fundamental problems and techniques of com-
puter vision, and experience their implementation in practice.
18

--- Page 19 ---
2.2. Module Content
U08571 Real-time Embedded Robotic Systems
Robotics Systems Engineering addresses the low-level embedded sys-
tems aspects of robotic development. Embedded systems are based on
small scale controller boards with a variety of input/output mechanisms.
The integration of low-level control with actuators and sensors requires
the specific understanding of the commonly used controllers and their
interfaces.
U08186 Advanced Object Oriented Programming
This module covers the theory and practice of the advanced features of
object-oriented languages, code quality, the practicalities of large-scale
design, and the importance of robustness in software.
U08074 Reasoning about Functional Programs
This module aims to cover the principles and techniques of programming
with functions, and of reasoning about such programs mathematically.
U08282 Algorithms and Advanced Data Structures
This module covers algorithm and data structure design techniques,and
gives students an understanding of the implementation, efficiency and
utility of a range of useful programming applications.
U08079 Optimised Programming
This module covers methods, techniques, and strategies for producing
program code that runs as quickly as possible and makes the best pos-
sible use of the computing resources available. It covers performance
measurement, techniques for optimising program code, and methods
for making use of multiple processors, with a focus on applications such
as games where high performance is required.
U08085 Communicating and Teaching Computer
Science
• To provide undergraduates with an opportunity to gain marketable
and transferable key skills including the communication of their
knowledge of the subject in a challenging educational environment.
19

--- Page 20 ---
2. Curriculum
• To give undergraduates a better appreciation of the level of their
own expertise in their subject, and to build upon this through the
process of explaining the subject’s core ideas and concepts to oth-
ers.
• To help undergraduates learn to address the needs of individuals
and to think about methods of presentation which are appropriate
to the groups they are working with.
U08088 Independent study Level 6
Individual or exceptionally, small group work, on a level 6 topic relevant
to the student’s study of the appropriate field. The topic, supervisor and
assessment scheme will be agreed separately with the subject coordi-
nator and module leader for each student registration.
2.3 Professional Bodies
The intention is to submit the programme for accreditation by both the
IET (the Institute of Engineering and Technology) and the BCS (British
Computer Society) after the first cohort has completed, according to IET
and BCS requirements. IET and BCS criteria have been taken into ac-
count when designing the programme.
20

--- Page 21 ---
3
Learning, teaching and
assessment
3.1 Learning
To ensure that you will meet the programme learning outcomes,all mod-
ules in this programme comprise a rich mixture of theory and practice
with a focus on integrating the computer science and robotics aspects
of the course. The general strategy for learning and teaching is to use
front-of-class sessions (e.g. lectures) to teach the theoretical and con-
ceptual elements of the subject, and to use ‘hands-on’ sessions (e.g.
practicals), and project based learning to teach the practical and skills
based elements. Although this is the general pattern of teaching and
learning adopted throughout the programme, where better suited a dif-
ferent approach is used. For example, to teach programming an ap-
prenticeship model is used. In this model, you will be introduced to a
particular programming concept through a brief front-of-class session,
followed immediately by a hands-on session, which gives you the op-
portunity to put it into practice with help and feedback from staff be-
fore the next programming concept is introduced. In addition to this, a
project based approach to learning will be adopted in almost all of the
specialist robotics modules. This will give you the opportunity to learn
the theoretical and practical robotic concepts in the context of a hands-
on project, which will require you to develop a complete robotic system.
This is in preparation for your final year robotics project, where you will
be developing a robotic system in the context of a research project or
a commercially inspired project. Project based learning throughout the
course will primarily focus on developing systems for physical robotic
devices. Team work is featured prominently in the learning and teaching
21

--- Page 22 ---
3. Learning, teaching and assessment
strategy for this programme because the ability to work effectively in a
team is an important skill for many of the career paths that graduates
from this programme will take (e.g. robotic systems engineer, software
developer, software project manager).
All teaching on the programme implements the Brookes Assessment
Compact, as given on the following pages.
22

--- Page 23 ---
Assessment* Compact
[* Assessment encompasses all judgements made about the work of a student and/or their skills, abilities and
progress, and the associated provision of feedback.]
1. There are five fundamental tenets behind this compact, namely that:
1.1 Effective assessment is central to learning.
1.2 To be effective the relational nature of the assessment and feedback process needs to be emphasised,
particularly in terms of the need for active dialogue between students and staff.
1.3 To be effective, assessment must be recognised as a joint responsibility between staff and students.
1.4 The ability to assess, the work of both self and others, is an essential skill for all graduates.
1.5 For the above tenets to be met in full, students and staff need to be ‘assessment literate’ and actively
participate in disciplinary communities of assessment practice.
2. The University will therefore ensure that:
2.1 Assessment is central to the curriculum, and there should be no distinct boundary between assessment,
teaching and learning. All academic staff will therefore be encouraged to regard assessment as a
fundamental and integral part of programme design, and one that is intended to shape and develop learning,
as much as to judge and measure it.
2.2 Assessment is designed at programme level, to integrate module assessment and ensure that assessment
shapes learning in a coherent and holistic fashion, consistent with the aims and learning outcomes of the
programme so that identified knowledge, skills and qualities can be developed and recognised, and validly
assessed, whilst recognising progressive levels of attainment and different modes of study.
2.3 The relationship between learning outcomes and assessment tasks is made explicit. In addition, clear
assessment criteria should be provided whenever possible, and always when the assessment contributes to
marks, grades, or decisions about progression. Assessment judgements must focus on the achievement of
the learning outcomes against the assessment criteria, and this achievement authenticated as the student’s
own.
2.4 Every effort is taken to ensure that there is no bias in the type of assessment task, or method chosen, or the
criteria applied, that would unfairly disadvantage any student.
2.5 Students are given supportive, constructive and timely feedback as an essential part of their learning. Such
feedback will enable students to build on their positive achievements and have a clear sense of what they
need to do to improve, with subsequent opportunities provided to act on the feedback and to put the advice
given into practice.
2.6 Programmes include activities (e.g. marking exercises, self and peer-assessment, etc.) specifically designed
to involve students in assessment, to encourage dialogue between students and their tutors, and students
and their peers, and to develop their abilities to make their own informed judgements (assessment literacy).
2.7 Programmes produce assessment schedules of summative assessment, and make every effort to avoid the
concentration of assessment deadlines.
2.8 Academic staff are provided with staff development in assessment literacy, and awareness of new ideas and
techniques.
2.9 Disciplinary communities of assessment practice are developed through, for example, regular peer
discussion and student involvement.
2.10 Institutional values and policies consistently support this compact, and adequate resources are provided.
OBU Assessment Compact 2009

--- Page 24 ---
3. Students will be expected to take responsibility for their own learning through:
3.1 Actively engaging with assessment tasks, including carefully reading the guidance provided, spending
sufficient time on the task, ensuring their work is authentic and their own (whether individual or groupwork),
and by handing work in on time.
3.2 Actively engaging in activities designed to develop assessment literacy, including taking the initiative when
appropriate (e.g. asking for clarification or advice).
3.3 Actively engaging with, and acting on, feedback provided.
3.4 Actively engaging in the development of assessment policy at course and programme level through the
established processes and student representative system.
OBU Assessment Compact 2009

--- Page 25 ---
3.1. Learning
Virtual Learning Environment
The Brookes Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) uses Moodle. Moodle
contains essential information about the modules you are registered for,
or a link to this information if it is stored elsewhere. For each module this
includes:
• The module description, including information such as the mod-
ule title, module number, the module leader, the module level, the
number of credits, pre-requisites, co-requisites, any restrictions or
requirements, learning outcomes, teaching, learning and assess-
ment and learning hours.
• The module reading list.
• Links to important University-wide information including the poli-
cies for:
– Mitigating Circumstances
– Dyslexia
– Plagiarism
– Syndication and Collusion
– University wide regulations
– Examination Guidance
• Module tutor(s) and contact details.
• Programme administrator and contact details.
• Assessment details and arrangements.
• Assessment Cover Sheet and Feedback Form.
• Specimen Examination Papers (where relevant).
• Useful web links and other resources.
• Use of student feedback to improve the module.
• Teaching materials such as lecture notes and practical exercises.
The link to Moodle login, using your PIP username and password is:
http://moodle.brookes.ac.uk
25

--- Page 26 ---
3. Learning, teaching and assessment
3.2 Email
Email is the standard mode of communication between students and
staff. You will receive a Brookes email address on enrolment, which you
should use in all correspondence with staff. For details,see the comput-
ing services website at http://obis.brookes.ac.uk.
3.3 Work Placements
Between your second and final years of study,you will have the opportu-
nity to undertake a year’s paid placement in industry. This is something
that our students find very valuable, and it will also improve your em-
ployability once you graduate. The department has a mature portfolio of
companies offering placements in a wide range of contexts from multina-
tional industries through SMEs to public sector bodies. The department
engages with e-skills UK and students participate in the e-skills Profes-
sional Internship scheme during their placement. Each placed student is
assigned an academic supervisor for their placement year who will visit
them at their placements. Preparation for placement is provided during
the second year, through the module U08055 Professional Issues and
Computer Risks, and in specialist sessions. You will also be supported
by a dedicated administrator,who manages the placements process and
provides help in securing a place.
3.4 Programme Calendar
Generally, semesters at Brookes have the following structure (detailed
semester dates can be found at the Brookes website: http://www.brookes.
ac.uk/studying-at-brookes/learning-and-teaching/semester-dates/.
26

--- Page 27 ---
3.4. Programme Calendar
Week Event
0 Enrolment and Induction
1 Teaching
2 Teaching
3 Teaching
4 Teaching
5 Teaching & Programme Committee Meeting
6 Teaching
7 Teaching
8 Teaching
9 Teaching
10 Teaching
11 Teaching
12 Teaching
13 Examinations
14 Marking
15 Marking
16
17 Examination Committee
18 Results published
The assessment schedules below gives details of the assessment
submitted and feedback provided throughout the semester for each mod-
ule.
27

--- Page 28 ---
BSc (Hons) Computing for Robotic Systems Semester 1
Assessment is individual unless indicated otherwise.
% of Week Week
Module Name Semester Choice Assessment Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Week 5 Week 6 Week 7 Week 8 Week 9 Week 11 Exam
Marks 10 12
Compulsory
U08007 Business Computing 1 and 2 (dbl) Compulsory Business case and project plan (groupwork) 20%
Technical specification report (groupwork) 20%
Technical design report (2nd semester) (groupwork) 20%
Product presentation (2nd semester) (groupwork) 20%
Personal portfolio (2nd semester) 20%
U08008 Modern Computing Technology 1 (dbl) Compulsory Programming Assignment 1 25%
Programming Assignment 2 25%
Programming Assignment 3 25%
Class test 25%
U08055 Professional Issues and Computer Risks 1 Compulsory Essay 50%
Risk assessment (groupwork) 50%
U08025 Foundations of Computation 1 Compulsory Analysis exercise 1 15%
Analysis exercise 2 15%
Exam 70%
U08026 Further Object Oriented Programming 1 Compulsory Weekly programming exercises 20%
System development & documentation (groupwork) 80%
U08500 Introductory Robotics 1 and 2 (dbl) Compulsory Report on each sub-project 40%
Report on the semester project 60%
U08520 Advanced Robotics 1 and 2 (dbl) Compulsory Report on each sub-project 40%
Report on the semester project 60%
U08570 Cognitive Robotics 1 Compulsory Written report in the style of a research paper 100%
U08089 Machine Learning 1 Compulsory Written report on the analysis of a machine learning task 50%
Exam 50%
U08599 Robotics Project 1 and 2 (dbl) Compulsory Proposal 10%
Interim report 10%
Final report (2nd semester) 70%
Presentation (2nd semester) 10%
Optional
U08186 Advanced Object-Oriented Programming 1 Optional Individual 50%
Exam 50%
U08028 Software Development with C and C++ 1 Optional Software development assignment (groupwork) 50%
Exam 50%
U08282 Algorithms and Advanced Data Structures 1 Optional Programming assignment 1 10%
Programming assignment 2 10%
Programming assignment 3 30%
Exam 50%
U08085 Communicating and Teaching Computer Science 1 or 2 Optional Log book completion 25%
Final report 25%
Presentation 25%
Teacher assessment 25%
U08868 Independent Study Level 5 1 or 2 Optional Dependent on learning outcomes 100%
U08088 Independent Study Level 6 1 or 2 Optional Dependent on learning outcomes 100%

--- Page 29 ---
BSc (Hons) Computing for Robotic Systems Semester 2
Assessment is individual unless indicated otherwise.
% of Week Week
Module Name Semester Choice Assessment Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Week 5 Week 6 Week 7 Week 8 Week 9 Week 11 Exam
Marks 10 12
Compulsory
U08007 Business Computing 1 and 2 (dbl) Compulsory Business case and project plan (groupwork) 20%
Technical specification report (groupwork) 20%
Technical design report (2nd semester) (groupwork) 20%
Product presentation (2nd semester) (groupwork) 20%
Personal portfolio (2nd semester) 20%
U08009 Introduction to Object Oriented Programming 2 Compulsory Weekly lab exercises 10%
Programming assignment 1 15%
Programming assignment 2 25%
Exam 50%
U08606 Discrete Mathematics Problem set 25%
Problem set 25%
Exam 50%
U08027 Current Research 2 Compulsory Subject-area specific essay (group with individual reflection) 60%
Impact essay 40%
U08223 Data Structures 2 Compulsory Programming Exercise 1 25%
Programming Exercise 2 25%
Exam 50%
U08226 Foundations of Security 2 Compulsory System analysis 30%
Pen test 20%
Exam 50%
U08781 Machine Vision 2 Compulsory Report on analysis of machine vision problem 50%
Exam 50%
U08500 Introductory Robotics 1 and 2 (dbl) Compulsory Report on each sub-project 40%
Report on the semester project 60%
U08520 Advanced Robotics 1 and 2 (dbl) Compulsory Report on each sub-project 40%
Report on the semester project 60%
U08521 Robotic Systems Engineering 2 Compulsory Laboratory log book 40%
Project report 60%
U08599 Project 1 and 2 (dbl) Compulsory Proposal 10%
Interim report 10%
Final report (2nd semester) 70%
Presentation (2nd semester) 10%
Optional
U08038 The Human Computer Interface 2 Optional Group work 50%
Class Test 50%
U08048 Requirements Specification and Software Design 2 Optional Requirements elicitation (groupwork) 25%
Requirements modelling (groupwork) 45%
Software architecture 30%
U08074 Reasoning about Functional Programs 2 Optional Coursework assignment 30%
Exam 70%
U08079 Optimised Programming 2 Optional Software optimization exercise 50%
Exam 50%
U08085 Communicating and Teaching Computer Science 1 or 2 Optional Log book completion 25%
Final report 25%
Presentation 25%
Teacher assessment 25%
U08571 Real-time Embedded Robotic Systems 2 Optional Laboratory log book 40%
Project report 60%
U08868 Independent Study Level 5 1 or 2 Optional Dependent on learning outcomes 100%
U08088 Independent Study Level 6 1 or 2 Optional Dependent on learning outcomes 100%

--- Page 30 ---
3. Learning, teaching and assessment
3.5 Assessment Regulations
Assessment Criteria
Overall assessment criteria are provided in the module descriptions,spe-
cific criteria are given in the appropriate assessment specifications for
each module. Procedures in the department adhere to the standard uni-
versity assessment regulations:
http://www.brookes.ac.uk/regulations.
Assessment Procedures
Normally, assessed work will be submitted, and marks and accompany-
ing feedback will be returned, through the Moodle page for the module.
Where this is not the case,it will be explicitly indicated in the assessment
specification.
Grading
The programme adheres to the university’s standard grading conven-
tions. Details of these can be found at:
http://www.brookes.ac.uk/regulations.
Submission Procedures
Extensions to the deadline to handing in assessed work can only be given
where mitigating circumstances have been shown to have occurred. Mit-
igating circumstances are circumstances which were beyond your con-
trol and which could not be reasonably accommodated by you and which
seriously impaired your performance in assessment. All three parts of
this definition must be met for the University to agree you were affected
by mitigating circumstances. For example, these circumstances could
be medical or personal. In all cases you will be required to provide satis-
factory documentary evidence to support your claim; if you fail to supply
satisfactory documentary evidence your request will be turned down. It
is possible to submit a mitigating circumstances claim before you can
provide evidence, but failing to later provide this evidence means that it
will be automatically rejected. The only exception is for very short ex-
tensions to an assessment deadline (up to one week), where you may
be allowed to self-certify your circumstances. These short extension are
dealt with by the module leader and are dealt with quickly, but all other
30

--- Page 31 ---
3.5. Assessment Regulations
claims are dealt with by the Mitigating Circumstances Panel, which will
take longer to process.
In all cases,you should submit your claim and your evidence as soon
as possible and in any case always before an assessment deadline or
exam. If you miss a deadline you will not only need to demonstrate that
you were affected by mitigating circumstances but you will need to pro-
vide evidence that you were unable to submit your claim by the deadline.
If you wish to make a mitigating circumstances claim, there is a spe-
cific form that must be used, which you can find in PIP. Instructions for
using the form are in PIP too. Help and advice on the procedure can be
obtained from the Student Support Coordinators.
If you miss an assessment deadline or an exam without approval for
valid mitigating circumstances you will receive zero for that assessment.
If your claim for mitigating circumstances is approved then you can
be granted an extension to your submission deadline of up to five weeks
where relevant, or be allowed to re-sit your examination. In certain spe-
cific situations re-taking an entire module may be authorised. The Uni-
versity does not increase marks on the basis of mitigating circumstances.
Instead extensions,re-sits or re-takes are awarded to allow you to demon-
strate your full potential in assessments.
Further details can be found in Regulation A3.5, which can be found
at :http://www.brookes.ac.uk/regulations.
Moderation
All programmes have at least one associated external examiner. This will
be a senior academic from another university with experience teaching
on similar programmes.
Examination and coursework are created by the module tutors and
checked by an internal moderator,who is an academic in the department.
Once this internal moderation process is complete,the assessments are
sent to the external examiner to be agreed. This process takes place at
the start of the semester.
Coursework specifications should state the deadline for the return of
feedback, where this differs from the norm of the programme. Marking
and the provision of feedback is carried out by the tutors on the module.
Second marking of assessment is carried out in accordance to the faculty
policy.
All marks are provisional until they have been ratified by the exam-
ination committee at the end of the semester. The external examiner
participates in the meeting and will previously have reviewed the marks
31

--- Page 32 ---
3. Learning, teaching and assessment
and performance on the modules. Marks cannot be ratified without the
agreement of the external examiner. After the meeting the external ex-
aminer will deliver a report on the programme to the University. This re-
port will be made available to you through PIP. The external examiner’s
name and institution are given in the report, this is purely for information,
please do not contact them directly.
Appeals and Complaints
Appeals
Requests for the review of a decision of an Examination Committee must
be received by the Academic Registrar within one month of the publica-
tion of the result. If you are unable to lodge a request for a review within
the month you should, within that period, lodge a written declaration of
intent to do so with the Academic Registrar,who may impose a time limit
for the submission of the full request. Any request submitted beyond
these limits must include reasons and evidence showing why, through
no fault on your part, the request could not have been made within the
time limit. For information and advice on the procedures, please see
the student support coordinators. Information about the procedures can
be found at the Student Central, Student Disputes Team: http://www.
brookes.ac.uk/students/your-studies/student-disputes.
Complaints
Details of the complaints procedure can be found at:
http://www.brookes.ac.uk/students/your-studies/student-disputes/
student-complaints
Depending on the nature of the complaint, you should first go to the
person concerned. If this does not resolve the matter,or if it is not appro-
priate to follow this procedure,you may initiate a formal complaint proce-
dure by submitting a Student Complaint Form (SCF 1). See the website
for full details of the procedure, or ask the Faculty Student Complaints
Officer for guidance: Laura Cooper lcooper@brookes.ac.uk.
3.6 Good Academic Practice
At Brookes, good academic practice permeates all our programmes.
Staff at the department come together in weekly meetings where ex-
32

--- Page 33 ---
3.6. Good Academic Practice
amples of good academic practice and new developments in teaching
are shared. These then influence the delivery of modules.
Turnitin
Turnitin is a web-based tool that supports students in the development
of good academic practice when preparing written work for assessment.
This text-matching tool allows academic staff to check students’ work for
improper use of sources or potential plagiarism by comparing it against
continuously up-dated databases (including web-pages and student work).
Turnitin produces an ’Originality Report’ for each submitted piece of work
which indicates all the matches in the student assignment to the web-
based sources on its database,and thus can provide academic staff with
the opportunity to help students develop proper citation methods as well
as to safeguard students’ academic integrity. At Oxford Brookes Univer-
sity,all students on the undergraduate modular programme will normally
use Turnitin on a minimum of three compulsory occasions: once during a
compulsory module in the first year, once again in a compulsory module
in subsequent years, and finally during the dissertation. In addition, Tur-
nitin may be used optionally on other modules. Submission to Turnitin
takes place through Moodle as a normal part of the coursework submis-
sion process. University regulations relating to Turnitin can be found at:
http://www.brookes.ac.uk/regulations.
Academic Conduct Officer
Where potential cases of academic misconduct arise,the module leader
will report these to the department’s Academic Conduct Officer who will
investigate. This involves the gathering of evidence, and investigative
interviews to determine if misconduct has occurred, and the setting of
appropriate penalties where this is the case. Where serious misconduct
has occurred, these cases may be referred to the University Miscon-
duct Committee. The details of the relevant procedures can be found at:
http://www.brookes.ac.uk/asa.
33

--- Page 34 ---


--- Page 35 ---
4
Learning resources
4.1 Library
There are three libraries at Oxford Brookes University and all are avail-
able for use by Brookes’ students. The Wheatley Library specialises in
computing, communication technologies, mathematics, statistics, engi-
neering and business. The largest, and multidisciplinary, library is the
Headington Library on the Gipsy Lane site of the Headington campus.
The Harcourt Hill Library specialises in education, theology, human de-
velopment, communication, sport and performing arts. Opening times
and other information on Library Services can be obtained at the Library
Enquiry Desks, and from the Library website at: http://www.brookes.
ac.uk/library
The Library contains and subscribes to information in a wide variety
of formats:
• Electronic (over 100 online databases, 6,000 electronic journals,
and 300 electronic books)
• Printed (almost 500,000 books, over 2,000 current journals, and a
wide range of newspapers)
• Audio-visual (CDs, DVDs)
Library Catalogue terminals are located throughout the Library, pro-
viding access to the Library’s stock and enabling users to check what
items they have on loan and renew books. Books, except for those in
the Short Loan Collection, that are already on loan or at another Library
site can be reserved on the Catalogue and delivered to any site. They
35

--- Page 36 ---
4. Learning resources
can also be returned to any site. The catalogue can be accessed 24/7
over the Internet at: http://catalogue.brookes.ac.uk
• Books can be borrowed for periods of one or two weeks.
• Books in heavy demand are placed in the Short Loan Collection
from where they may be borrowed for 4 or 24 hours.
• Students are entitled to borrow up to 10 items plus 2 Short Loan
items at any one time. Fines are charged for the late return of ma-
terial.
• Articles and books not in the Library can be obtained through the
Interlibrary Loans service, at a charge of £2 per item.
Subject help web pages have all the links to electronic resources and
are available for:
• Computing: http://www.brookes.ac.uk/library/comp.html
• Communication Technologies: http://www.brookes.ac.uk/library/
elec.html
Book lists
Almost every module has a Reading List (which are sometimes also called
Resource Lists). A Reading List is a list of the information resources
(books and e-books, journals and e-journals, standards, websites, tech-
nical papers,videos,etc.) that you need to consult when taking the mod-
ule. Reading Lists are stored electronically at http://resourcelists.
brookes.ac.uk where you can search for lists, modules, and courses.
You should also find a link from every module’s Moodle page to it’s read-
ing list; look in the right hand column of any module’s Moodle page for a
box called Resource Lists to find the link.
Referencing
Computing students are advised to use the Harvard referencing system.
Communication Technologies students are advised to use the British
Standard (numerical) system. Details should be confirmed with the mod-
ule leader. The Library can offer advice on both systems. Citing your
sources (also called referencing) is an essential part of your academic
work for several reasons:
36

--- Page 37 ---
4.2. Upgrade
• to acknowledge the sources you have used as the basis for your
research. Failure to do this could be regarded as plagiarism.
• to enable other people to identify and trace the sources you have
used.
• to support facts and claims you have made in your assignment.
• to show that you have read widely and used a variety of sources.
When you use published information (including web resources) to col-
lect ideas and data for your assignment,record the full details of the ma-
terial as you use it. This saves time later when you are ready to complete
your written work. Use the citing guides,prepared by the Library,so that
you know which details you will need.
You can use the software programme,EndNote,to create a database
of your own references and then, when writing your assignment or dis-
sertation, you can use this programme to produce in-text citations and
a bibliography.
Guidance on how to reference your work correctly, using what is
known as the Harvard Referencing System,may be found on the Brookes
website at: http://www.brookes.ac.uk/library/resources/harvard.
pdf
4.2 Upgrade
Upgrade is a service offering study advice to students at Oxford Brookes
University. Anyone can come to the Upgrade desk at drop-in times for
academic advice or help. Your Module Leader or Academic Adviser is
often the best person to help you – Upgrade is in addition to,not instead
of, help from subject specialists.
There is much more information on the Upgrade web site:
http://www.brookes.ac.uk/services/upgrade
If your query is a quick one,we will help you straight away. If a longer
discussion is needed, you can book a 30 minute slot outside the drop-in
times to suit you.
What does Upgrade do?
• We offer advice in:
– Maths :
* Statistics, charts, SPSS
37

--- Page 38 ---
4. Learning resources
* numeracy for anyone
– Information skills:
* finding sources, hard copy and electronic
* referencing and bibliographies
– Study Skills: including
– planning, researching and writing assignments and essays
– referencing and bibliographies
– approaches to study (eg getting organised), exams
• What we don’t do:
– We don’t do your work for you! So we don’t proofread your
work (but we will advise you on how to tackle it)
– offer tuition in English as a Foreign Language (but we will ad-
vise you where to go for tuition).
• Confidentiality:
The Upgrade service is confidential – what is said remains between
you and your tutor,and will not be passed on to your subject tutors
or anyone else,unless this is agreed between you and the Upgrade
tutor. Email for an appointment: upgrade@brookes.ac.uk
4.3 Oxford Brookes Information Solutions
A comprehensive guide to the computer facilities available for student
use can be found at: http://obis.brookes.ac.uk/
IT Service Desks
IT Service Desks operate at Wheatley, Harcourt Hill and Gipsy Lane,
staffed all year round, with evening cover at Gipsy Lane during term-
time. Users can telephone,email or visit to seek help with problems with
software, faulty disks etc.
• Email (all campuses): servicedesk@brookes.ac.uk
• Telephone (all campuses): (01865 48)3311
38

--- Page 39 ---
4.4. Departmental IT Facilities
• Headington Road - John Henry Brookes Building, Forum
The Headington Campus Service Desk Point is located in the John
Henry Brookes Building, Level 0 in the Forum, tucked in the corner
opposite Cafe Central.
The Service Desk is open weekdays from 8.30am to 8pm.
Semester time weekend opening times:
The weekend hours are Saturday and Sunday from 11am to 4pm.
No need to book just turn up!
During vacation the Service Desk is open weekdays from 9am to
5pm (4.30pm on Fridays.)
• Wheatley: Library
The Wheatley Service Desk is located in the Wheatley Library and
is open weekdays from 9am to 6.15pm.
During the vacation the Service Desk runs from N104, the Service
Desk back office
• Harcourt Hill, Room GLG/08
The Harcourt Hill Service Desk is located in G block near the com-
puter rooms and the library and is open weekdays from 9am to
5pm.
Pooled Computer Rooms
For the locations of pooled computer rooms on all campuses see:
http://www2.brookes.ac.uk/services/cs/useful_info/sitemap.html
4.4 Departmental IT Facilities
Specialist Robotic Facilities
The Cognitive Robotics Laboratory (T206) houses our robots. These are
also used for our research programmes, but you will use them through-
out the Computing for Robotics Systems course. These robots include
Robothespian (Engineered Arts), Baxter (Rethink Robotics), Nao (Alde-
baran Robotics), a full-size Autonomous Vehicle (Quadbike), small scale
Autonomous Vehicles, quadcopters, and micro-quadcopters. Simula-
tion environments are also available for Robothespian, Baxter, and the
39

--- Page 40 ---
4. Learning resources
Nao robots. Additionally, the department makes available a range of
microprocessors (ARM based), motors, controllers, communication de-
vices (Zigbee, Wifi, Bluetooth), and electronic components for the con-
struction of robots.
Specialist Computing Rooms
The Department of Computing and Communication Technologies has its
own network which is linked to but managed separately from the main
University network. The department’s computer rooms contain specialist
computer and ITfacilities reserved for our students. These can be found
in the Rbuilding and in the Cblock on the Wheatley campus and consist
of:
• Fabrication Laboratory (Fab-Lab, C204a): This room is setup for
the development and construction of robotic components. In the
course, you will not only be programming pre-existing robots, but
also constructing your own in this lab.
• Network labs (in rooms R217,R222 & C104): These contain a range
of CISCOrouters and switches,network monitoring and simulation
software,2Gand 3Gmapping equipment. These are used primarily
by students studying networking.
• Secure labs (in rooms C104 & C105): Part of the network in these
labs is sectioned off from the main campus network to enable stu-
dents to conduct experiments that might adversely impact the per-
formance of the campus network. These are primarily used by stu-
dents studying security and systems administration.
• Project labs (in rooms R243 & C105): These labs contain a range
of equipment that can be set up and configured for a range of ex-
perimental and development tasks. These are used primarily by
students who are undertaking a specialised project.
• Media labs (in rooms R202, R213, R228 & R234): These contain
equipment for producing, editing and deploying a variety of media.
These are used primarily by students studying on one of the media
programmes.
• General purpose labs (in rooms R132, R146, R148, R217, R222,
C101 & C104): In addition to their specialist roles, most of our labs
contain high end PCs that are set up for general computer use.
These are used by everybody.
40

--- Page 41 ---
4.4. Departmental IT Facilities
Other Specialist Equipment
The department maintains a large range of specialist equipment which
includes:
• Robots used both for research in Cognition, Vision, Kinematics,
Swarm Intelligence, Machine Learning, Gait generation, as well as
teaching.
• Two High Performance cluster computers
• Enterprise networking equipment
• Qube Render farm for 3D animation
• A TV studio
• Smartphones and tablets
• 2G & 3G mobile phone signal analysis equipment
• Access to a large range of Microsoft products, including Operating
Systems, through the departments MSDN AA subscription
• Access to VMWare virtualisation software
• Access to Sophos Anti-virus software for your own computer.
You will be taught how to gain access to and use this equipment
if your module requires it’s use. It is also available for use in student
projects.
Out Of Hours Access
Access to the Rbuilding outside of teaching hours is via a keycard which
is available from the departmental office.
Help And Support For Departmental IT Facilities
In most cases the module leader or practical assistant is best placed to
help with the use of specialist hardware or software. Help with special-
ist media resources is available from the media Technical Instructors (Joe
Carr and James Templeton) in R227. Help with communications and net-
working equipment, server and general computing resources are avail-
able from our computing Technical Instructor (Paul Sturgess) in C107.
41

--- Page 42 ---


--- Page 43 ---
5
Student support and guidance
5.1 Sources of help and advice
• Advice from the Programme Lead, Subject Co-ordinators, Module
Leaders and Academic Advisors.
• Student Support Co-ordinators.
• Programme and module handbooks.
• The Postgraduate Programme Administrator.
• Central support services.
• Update - study skills development/support.
• Oxford Brookes International.
• Student forums.
• Student representatives,who are invited to attend a variety of meet-
ings at which programme issues and student concerns are dis-
cussed.
• The Brookes Union (student organisation): +44 (0)1865484770,
http://www.brookesunion.org.uk/advice
The University level support services are of the directorate Academic and
Students Affairs: http://www.brookes.ac.uk/asa.
43

--- Page 44 ---
5. Student support and guidance
5.2 Student Support Coordinators
The Department’s Student Support Coordinators are Fareena Salih and
Sam Varney. Both are key points of contact should you have a personal
or academic-related problem. They are based on the ground floor of
the Turing building at Wheatley Campus in the ‘Student Support Office’,
room T1.18, where they have regular office hours when you can drop in
to see them. You can also make an appointment with them via email (see
below).
Fareena and Sam are here to offer knowledge, experience and ad-
vice to those undergraduate students requiring information, guidance or
support regarding:
• Accommodation problems
• Financial support
• Personal and medical problems
• Understanding of the Mitigating Circumstances procedures and Uni-
versity regulations
• Who to talk to about academic matters
How to contact Fareena:
By email: fsalih@brookes.ac.uk
Or by phone: 01865 48 4509
How to contact Sam:
By email: svarney@brookes.ac.uk
Or by phone: 01865 48 4512
Fareena and Sam will aim to answer as many of your questions as
possible but will also be able to refer you to Academic Advisers, Pro-
gramme Leads, Subject Coordinators, Module Leaders, the Students’
Union Advice Centre, Counselling services, Disability Service, Interna-
tional Students’ Advisory Service, Student finance and financial Aid etc.
Fareena and San can help you with how to go about:
• Module addition and deletion
• Resolving errors on your PIP
• Changing subjects
44

--- Page 45 ---
5.3. Academic Advisers
• Accessing Timetables
• Finding relevant information in handbooks
• Problems with exam schedules
Whatever your query or problem you can contact Fareena or Sam for
advice. All conversations are confidential unless stated otherwise.
5.3 Academic Advisers
At the beginning of your programme you will be assigned one of the tutors
as your Academic Adviser, who is available to offer you help and advice
throughout your programme. The name and room number of your Aca-
demic Adviser is on your PIPrecord. Time is set aside in Induction Week
for all new students to visit their Academic Advisers. If you enrol late
make this visit as soon as possible in week 1. Your Academic Adviser will
receive details of your timetable and your progress throughout your stud-
ies. For more information about the University policy on Academic Guid-
ance, see regulation E2 at: http://www.brookes.ac.uk/regulations.
5.4 Programme Leads
The Programme Leads have overall responsibility for all the undergrad-
uate programmes in the Department. The Programme Leads for the De-
partment of Computing and Communication Technologies are Peter Mar-
shall and Bob Champion. Their contact details are:
Email: pmarshall@brookes.ac.uk Telephone: 01865 48 4542
Email: rchampion@brookes.ac.uk Telephone: 01865 48 4590
5.5 Subject Coordinators
Subject Coordinators are responsible for how a programme is run and
you may consult them if you have particular queries about programme
regulations or requirements. You may also contact them concerning
teaching and learning in the programme. They are also responsible for
counselling students on their choice of modules and you may consult
them about your second and final year programme. The current Subject
45

--- Page 46 ---
5. Student support and guidance
Coordinators are:
Subject Area Subject Coordinator
Computer Science (SQ, SD) Mark Green
Computing for Robotic Systems Tjeerd olde Scheper
Information Technology Management for Samia Kamal
Business (IC)
Network Computing (NK) Faye Mitchell
Software Development for Business (WB) Clare Martin
Software Engineering (SH) Clare Martin
5.6 Personal Information Pages
Your Personal Information Portal (PIP)facility is only available to you once
you have enrolled (or registered) as a student. When you enrol, you will
be given your own personal PIPpassword which will allow you to access
your personal details and amend your address, emergency contact and
mobile phone details. You will also be able to view:
• The modules for your course.
• Your timetable (when and where you will be attending lectures and
seminars).
• Your record (how you are doing, including marks and grades at the
end of each semester).
• Your examination timetable (when and where your exams will be
taking place).
• Details of your Academic Advisor (name, room, email and phone
number).
Your PIP password, which you collect at enrolment, will also allow
you access to:
• University computers.
• Brookes email (Brookes uses Google Mail).
46

--- Page 47 ---
5.6. Personal Information Pages
• HallNet. Internet access from Halls’ bedrooms to academic and
personal directories, web and email (chargeable).
• The Brookes intranet from anywhere in the world.
Access to PIP/email
Access to University and email facilities will cease 50 days after your
leaving date. PIP access (from outside the university) will continue for
200 days from when you leave. Please make sure you update your home
address and any relevant information before you lose PIP access.
Registering modules
Modules must be registered by the end of Week 0 of the semester in
which they run. It is your responsibility to register for the modules in
your programme of study via PIP (Personal Information Portal).
Adding and Deleting Modules
The deadline for students adding modules via PIP is Friday of Week 7 of
the semester before the module starts. The deadline for students delet-
ing modules via PIP is Friday of Week 2 of the semester in which the
module ends.
If modules you do not wish to take are not deleted, they will remain
on your programme and count towards the total number of modules that
have been taken. You will then have to pay for that module.
Conditions for progression and awards
The Programme Specification specifies the compulsory modules for each
individual programme and the modules that are pre-requisites for the
study of other modules. Students will normally be expected to follow
the programme in the sequence specified. To qualify for the award of
BSc (Hons), all compulsory modules for the programme, as described in
the approved Programme Specification, must be passed. You must also
pass a total of 24 module credits, where the optional modules are taken
from the list of acceptable modules for the programme. Sixteen of these
credits must be at least level 5, of which at least six must be at level 6.
47

--- Page 48 ---
5. Student support and guidance
Temporary Withdrawal (Intermission)
Any request for a temporary withdrawal/intermission from a programme
of study should initially be discussed with the Programme Lead.
Withdrawal
Students,who wish to withdraw from their course for economic reasons,
or because of life changes, will leave the course with credit for modules
passed to date. They may, when ready to commence studies again, re-
apply for a place on the course presenting their credits to be taken into
account in their application.
Students should be aware that,in the intervening time,changes might
have been made to the course such that previously credited modules,or
elements of modules, no longer apply to the programme of study.
Module timetable
Information about lecture/lab rooms and the module leader can all be
found by entering the relevant module number in the module search sec-
tion within the ‘Course Handbook’ tab of your PIP page.
You should also check your Brookes email account regularly, as any
changes to the timetable or lecture venue will normally be notified by
email.
Semester timetable/calendar
The semester timetable can be accessed at: http://www.brookes.ac.
uk/studying-at-brookes/learning-and-teaching/semester-dates
5.7 Procedures for notification of sickness or
absence
If due to sickness or other event you are unable to attend a laboratory
class or submit an assessed work element, then you should notify the
Module Leader (ML) of your intended absence. Should you be unable
to contact the ML, then a Student Support Co-ordinator could be in-
formed and they can communicate your absence to appropriate MLs. In
circumstances where the assessed work is summative (counts towards
48

--- Page 49 ---
5.8. Brookes Union
your module assessment) then you may wish to invoke the mitigating
circumstances procedure.
There isn’t normally a requirement to inform a Module Leader of your
intended absence from a lecture but it would be useful to do so.
5.8 Brookes Union
The Brookes Union, housed in the John Henry Brookes building, is run
by students,for students. It provides a range of student societies,raises
money for charities, organises the Brookes Radio Station, and coordi-
nates the student representation on your course. It is also home to the
Brookes Union Advice Centre.
The Brookes Union Advice Centre has professional advisers who have
expert knowledge in housing, academic matters, debt and money mat-
ters, consumer issues and much more. They have a regularly updated
information database and they write and publish many leaflets and book-
lets on student-related issues. Interviews are confidential. They can un-
dertake advocacy work on students’ behalf, both within the context of
the University and outside. The Advice Centre is a registered charity,
a member of the Federation of Independent Advice Centres (FIAC) and
registered with the Office of Fair Trading for debt counselling and money
advice.
The Brookes Union Advice Centre is in the John Henry Brookes Build-
ing. You can call in there during the semester between 08.30 - 18.00 on
Monday to Thursday, 08.30 - 16.00 on Fridays. Outside semester times,
they are available 09.00-16.00 Monday to Friday, except Tuesday 08.30-
18.00. They can also be contacted by phone 01865 484770 or through
email: su.advice@brookes.ac.uk.
For further information: http://www.brookesunion.org.uk/advice
5.9 Intellectual Property
Unless exempted, students agree to be bound by the University’s Intel-
lectual Property Policy. Details can be found at: http://www.brookes.
ac.uk/res/policy/ip_policy.pdf
49

--- Page 50 ---
5. Student support and guidance
5.10 Data protection and information security
Oxford Brookes University recognises that information, and the associ-
ated processes, systems and networks, are valuable assets and that the
management of personal data has important implications for individuals.
Through its security policies, procedures and structures, the Univer-
sity will facilitate the secure and uninterrupted flow of information, both
within the University and in external communications.
The University believes that security is an integral part of the informa-
tion sharing which is essential to academic and corporate endeavour and
the policies outlined below are intended to support information security
measures throughout the University.
The Information Security Policy is based on recommendations con-
tained in British Standard 7799, “A Code of Practice for Information Se-
curity Management”.
Further details can be found on the Oxford Brookes website: http://
www.brookes.ac.uk/documents/regulations/current/other/e13-data_
protection_policy
5.11 Careers Advice
The Careers and Employment Centre provides advice and information
for current students, including specific pages for International Students,
Postgraduates and Graduates of Oxford Brookes University.
Further information can be found at: http://www.brookes.ac.uk/
students/careers
5.12 Equality and Diversity
The Faculty of Technology, Design and Environment promotes an inclu-
sive learning environment in which individuals are valued and supported
in achieving their full potential. The Faculty endeavours to meet its du-
ties under the Equality Act 2010 to eliminate unfair discrimination and
promote equality of opportunity and good relations among members of
the university community.
For the university statement on Equal Opportunity and Diversity please
see: http://www.brookes.ac.uk/services/hr/eod/statement.html
If you have a matter to raise concerning disability you should con-
tact: disabilitysupport@brookes.ac.uk or use the telephone number:
01865 484651.
50

--- Page 51 ---
5.13. International Student Advice Team
There are staff who can offer a wide range of advice and support. In
addition, you could contact the Faculty Student Support Co-ordinators
who will be happy to talk to you.
Information regarding the Student Disability and Dyslexia Service can
be found on the following website: http://www.brookes.ac.uk/students/
wellbeing/disability-and-dyslexia-service
If you have disclosed a disability on your application form and have
not heard from the disability staff by the time you arrive,you should con-
tact the disability staff or the Student Support Co-ordinators as soon as
possible after you arrive. However, if you have not disclosed a disability
on your application form, but wish to disclose it when you get here, or
you develop a disability whilst at Brookes, please contact the disability
staff, or the Student Support Co-ordinators, as soon as possible. We
will do our best to make reasonable adjustment, but please remember
we can only make adjustment when we know there is an issue, and the
sooner we know, the sooner we can make any necessary adjustments.
5.13 International Student Advice Team
The International Student Advice Team provides information and advice
for international students on a range of issues, including finance, visas,
employment and general academic matters. It also provides a chance
to talk about concerns on adjusting to life in the UK and related issues.
For more information visit: http://www.brookes.ac.uk/students/isat
5.14 Student health and wellbeing
The aim of the Student Health and Wellbeing website is to keep you well
informed about health issues. Up to date health information is available
on a range of health topics.
The web site address is: http://www.brookes.ac.uk/students/wellbeing
A wealth of further advice for students can be found at: http://www.
brookes.ac.uk/students
Health and Safety Guide for Students
The Faculty of Technology, Design and Environment is committed to en-
suring the health, safety and welfare of the Faculty’s staff, students and
visitors. This is achieved through the co-operation of all personnel within
51

--- Page 52 ---
5. Student support and guidance
the Faculty in implementing the University’s Health and Safety Policy.
This is detailed in the Oxford Brookes University Safety Manual.
Information on Health and Safety for students can be found on the fol-
lowing website: http://www.brookes.ac.uk/services/hr/health_safety/
docs/obuhsn12.html
Introduction
1. This Health and Safety Notice should be read and understood by all
relevant employees of Oxford Brookes University and by all mem-
bers of the student body.
2. The Health and Safety at Work etc. Act 1974 in general, and the
University’s Statement of Health & Safety Policy (OBUHSN-01) specif-
ically provide the management structure and framework indicating
the health and safety responsibilities for all students. The intention
of this document is to provide all the health and safety information
and advice required by students during the course of their stud-
ies. Where appropriate, reference will be made to other associated
Health and Safety notices.
3. Students must always comply with relevant statutory requirements
and codes of practice and they are responsible for following safe
working practices and local procedures for the area in which they
are studying. Students should take a personal interest in promoting
the health and safety of themselves and others at work.
4. All students must familiarise themselves with, and abide by, the
University’s Health and Safety Policy (OBUHSN-01) and the Health
and Safety Policy of any Faculty/Directorate of the University where
they work or study. If a student believes that they have identified
a deficiency in a policy, or procedure, they should raise their con-
cern with Faculty/Directorate Staff, Student representatives or the
Students’ Union.
Emergency procedures (OBUHSN-11)
1. When the alarm bell rings you must:
• Evacuate the building.
• Fire Notices posted in rooms detail safe routes and assembly
points.
52

--- Page 53 ---
5.14. Student health and wellbeing
• DO NOT USE LIFTS.
• WALK, DO NOT RUN
• GET WELL CLEAR OF BUILDINGS AND ACCESS ROUTES.
2. On hearing a fire alarm ringing continuously,everybody must evac-
uate the building(s) using the shortest safe route of escape. Under
normal circumstances this should take no longer than 2.5 minutes.
No one should enter a building,or area in which the alarm is sound-
ing, until such time as the alarms are silenced and until a member
of Campus Services, the Fire Brigade or other senior members of
staff indicate that it is safe to do so. Failure to evacuate during a
fire alarm is a disciplinary offence for staff and students.
3. On discovering a fire, sound the alarm by breaking the glass on the
nearest call point and evacuate the building(s) as above.
4. All students must familiarise themselves with the procedures for
calling the emergency services to all areas of the University.
5. On the Headington Campus, call the emergency services (Police,
Ambulance, or Fire) from internal University telephones, by dialling
222. Callers should state clearly which emergency service is re-
quired, where the service is required and a telephone number on
which the emergency service operator can contact the caller. When
dialling 222 on any internal University telephone, the emergency
services will be alerted via the University exchange or the 24hr Se-
curity Office. The person alerting the emergency services must en-
sure that clear directions are given to the University telephonist or
to the emergency service concerned.
The caller should also make the necessary arrangements for meet-
ing the emergency vehicle(s) at the main entrance to the campus
and guiding them to the scene of the accident. All emergency call-
outs must be reported promptly to the Campus Services Manager’s
Office when there is a need for emergency vehicles to access the
Gipsy Lane Campus by either of the London Road entrances [Gate
1 or Gate 2] or other restricted route.
6. On any other University site, call the emergency services directly
by dialling 999 or 112 on any internal telephone. The person alert-
ing the emergency services must ensure that clear directions are
given to the service concerned. The caller should also make the
necessary arrangements for meeting the emergency vehicle(s) at
53

--- Page 54 ---
5. Student support and guidance
the main entrance to the site and guiding them to the scene of the
accident.
First aid procedures
All students must familiarise themselves with the location of qualified
first aiders. Students must know what action to take on discovering a
first aid incident (OBUHSN-10). Qualified first aiders work within every
Faculty/Directorate. The number of first aiders, and their location, will
depend on the risks within their place of work.
To identify your nearest first aider:
• Click on “first aiders” in the electronic internal telephone directory.
• Look on the white and green first aid lists located on the walls
around the University.
• Telephone the University switchboard by dialling zero on any inter-
nal telephone.
If no first aider is available, and the injury is serious, either call emer-
gency services, or take the person to the Casualty Department at the JR
Hospital.
Accident/incident reporting
1. Students must know the University procedures for reporting acci-
dents, incidents or any kind of dangerous occurrence (OBUHSN-
09).
2. As soon as any necessary immediate action has been taken, us-
ing the Oxford Brookes University Accident Report form, the acci-
dent/incident must be reported by a member of staff present at the
scene,or the individual involved in the accident/incident. Copies of
the form are available from Faculty/Directorate offices and supplied
by the Safety Officer.
3. The completed form must be forwarded to the Safety Officer within
3 days of the event.
4. Students must conduct themselves responsibly and safely while
carrying out any university related activity. They must ensure that
their actions or omissions do not endanger the health and safety of
themselves, staff, other students, visitors or the general public.
54

--- Page 55 ---
5.14. Student health and wellbeing
5. Students shall not intentionally or recklessly interfere with, or mis-
use anything provided by the University in the interests of Health,
Safety or Welfare. Such damage or interference constitutes a crim-
inal offence and at least will result in disciplinary action.
6. Students must not use any apparatus or equipment until they have
received instruction from a properly qualified and responsible mem-
ber of staff as to how to use it safely.
7. Students must report any apparent, or potentially dangerous sit-
uation, apparatus, equipment or building immediately, to the lec-
turer/supervisor in charge. In the event of the appropriate lecturer
or supervisor not being immediately available, students must take
any reasonable steps to minimise the hazard and report the incident
to Site Services, Hall Manager or the Safety Officer as appropriate.
8. A risk assessment of any student project must be carried out prior
to its commencement to identify the potential hazards, level of su-
pervision required and the implications of the project to the build-
ings and grounds of the University. Where necessary, supervision
must be carried out by the lecturer or their authorised nominee.
This nominee can be a suitably qualified member of academic or
technical staff.
9. It is the responsibility of the supervisor to ensure that the project is
properly risk assessed and managed (OBUHSN-36):-
• for compliance with existing Faculty/Directorate procedures.
• for general risks to health and safety under the Health and
Safety at Work, etc. Act 1974, or other associated legislation.
• for compliance with any University Safety Notices, Codes of
Practice or Guidance Notes.
• alterations to the project must be reassessed and recorded.
• if, after a risk assessment, it is decided that the risks are min-
imal, this fact still needs to be recorded.
10. Any necessary precautions identified by the risk assessment must
be agreed between the supervisor and student(s). In all, but the
most elementary circumstances, they must be recorded in writing.
The supervisor must carry out regular checks of the project to iden-
tify whether the student(s) are following the agreed procedures.
55

--- Page 56 ---
5. Student support and guidance
11. Students must seek and follow advice, where appropriate, from
the University Safety Officer, Senior Occupational Health Advisor
and/or Departmental or Specialist Health and Safety Advisors.
Personal protective equipment
1. Students must, at all times, wear such protective equipment as is
appropriate for any work or activity that they undertake (OBUHSN-
21). Any local policies or procedures for the Faculty/Directorate will
outline the specific personal protective equipment required.
2. COSHH – is the Control of Substances Hazardous to Health. The
University is required, under the H&SWA 1974, to carry out an as-
sessment for both substance and activity where the substance is
deemed to be hazardous.
If you want to use hazardous substances, or embark on a pro-
cess using a hazardous substance, you first need to complete a
COSHH Assessment. Please contact the Faculty Safety Advisor,
Andy Glass for assistance.
NOTE: Most hazardous substances are labelled as such and de-
tailed handling and user information is available. If in doubt ASK.
Do not expose yourself, or others, to hazards. This includes activ-
ities such as spray painting, activities which create dust, etc.
Activities off site
Students who, as part of their coursework are undertaking activities off
site, must read and comply with the relevant Health and Safety No-
tices, Fieldwork and Outdoor Education (OBUHSN-24) and Travelling
and Working Overseas (OBUHSN-38) notices.
Alcohol and drugs policy
This document forms part of the Academic and Student Affairs Direc-
torate on student policies and outlines the University’s procedures re-
garding student use and misuse of alcohol and drugs including the sup-
port and help available and the disciplinary procedures that will be taken
if misuse occurs. The policy must be read by all students. Copies of
the document are available from Student Services or are available on
line at: http://www.brookes.ac.uk/documents/regulations/current/
other/e16-drugs_policy
56

--- Page 57 ---
5.14. Student health and wellbeing
Contacts for Health and Safety
Name Position Contact Room
Tim McGill University Safety Officer Ex. 5744 A1.06
Gordon Health and Safety Ex. 3125 JP1.04
Langford Officer
Christie Senior Occupational Ex. 5531 A1.03
Rainbird Health Nurse
Alison Porat Occupational Health Ex. 5772 A1.01
Administrator
Security Staffed 24 hrs every day Ex. 5853 Wheatley
Control
Office
Ex. 3060 Gipsy Lane
57

--- Page 58 ---


--- Page 59 ---
6
Feedback on the quality of the
learning experience
The content of this programme is identified in the programme structures
and module syllabi, but within these, a degree of flexibility is applied to
ensure that programmes reflect state-of-art processes and technology.
Academic staff constantly seek to improve the quality and relevance of
the programme content and delivery.
The Department operates a range of quality control and assurance
procedures to ensure that the student’s learning experience matches that
expected from such a reputable university.
The primary indicators of quality come through regular student feed-
back, module reviews, external examiners’ reports (which are available
on PIP), annual and periodic programme reviews and student surveys.
Student feedback, on a module, is gathered using the standard univer-
sity feedback form and is summarised by the administration team within
the faculty. This summary is incorporated into the module report docu-
mentation, used to inform the module review at the Subject Committee
Meeting, which is attended by the student representative for the sub-
ject. The minutes of the Subject Committee Meeting, which summarise
the discussion of the module reviews, are then presented at the Sub-
ject Examination Committee meeting where comments are invited from
the External Examiners. Any changes to module delivery and/or content,
which arise out of this review process, are communicated to the Subject
Committee Chair who has the responsibility of ensuring that they are im-
plemented.
Each module is assigned an Internal Moderator who has the respon-
sibility of checking the quality of the examination papers and the course-
work specifications before they are sent to the External Examiner for
59

--- Page 60 ---
6. Feedback on the quality of the learning experience
comments. Examination papers and coursework specification may be
modified in the light of the External Examiner’s comments before sub-
mission to the University’s Examination Office. The Internal Moderator
also checks the quality of the marking of the assessments on the module
based on a randomly selected sample.
The programme as a whole is reviewed annually through the Univer-
sity Annual Review procedure. This review assesses the quality of teach-
ing, learning and assessment as well as the overall academic standards
of the programme. It takes into account student progression and com-
pares the overall performance of students against the University bench-
mark. The Annual Review considers and responds to the comments from
the External Examiners.
Programmes are reviewed, normally on a six year periodic cycle, in
accordance with the provisions of the quality framework set by the Uni-
versity.
Regular Student Forum meetings are held during the semester to give
the student representatives a forum to present and discuss the concerns
of the student body. The forums are attended by senior members of the
department.
The Industrial Advisory Board is valuable in involving employers, and
other stakeholders,in the development of all our programmes. The Board
meets on a regular basis to discuss the research and the teaching which
is done in the department. Comments are invited from Board members
on the portfolio of programmes and on any new programme develop-
ments.
60

--- Page 61 ---
7
Programme Specification
61

--- Page 62 ---


--- Page 63 ---
Programme Specification
BSc (Hons) Computing for Robotic Sys-
tems
Valid from September 2016
Department of Computing
and Communication Technologies
Faculty of Technology, Design and Environment
Oxford Brookes University

--- Page 64 ---
Contents
Contents 2
1 General Information 5
2 Overview and Programme Aims 7
2.1 Rationale, aims and distinctiveness of the programme . . . 7
2.2 Aims of the programme . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
3 Programme Learning Outcomes 9
3.1 Academic literacy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
3.2 Research literacy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
3.3 Critical self-awareness and personal literacy . . . . . . . . 10
3.4 Digital and information literacy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
3.5 Active citizenship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
4 Programme Structure and Curriculum 13
4.1 Programme structure and requirements . . . . . . . . . . . 13
4.2 Professional requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
5 Programme Delivery 19
5.1 Teaching, Learning and Assessment . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
5.2 Assessment regulations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
6 Admissions 23
6.1 Entry criteria . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
6.2 DBS checks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
7 Student Support and Guidance 25
2

--- Page 65 ---
Contents
8 Graduate Employability 27
9 Links with Employers 29
10 Quality Management 31
3

--- Page 66 ---


--- Page 67 ---
1
General Information
Awarding body: Oxford Brookes University
Teaching institution Oxford Brookes University
and location:
Final award: Bachelors of Science
Programme title: Computing for Robotic Systems
Interim exit awards CertHE, DipHE, BSc
and award titles:
Brookes course code: RO
UCAS/UKPASS code: 7M23 BSc/CRobot
JACS code: G400
Mode of delivery: Face-to-Face
Mode/s and duration Full-time , Part-time
of study:
Language of study: English
Relevant QAA subject Computing (2007)
benchmark
statement/s:
External accredita- N/A
tion/recognition:
Faculty managing the Technology, Design and Environment (TDE)
programme:
Date of production of September 2014
specification:
Date of production of February 2016
latest revision:
5

--- Page 68 ---


--- Page 69 ---
2
Overview and Programme Aims
2.1 Rationale, aims and distinctiveness of the
programme
Robotics is an exciting, and rapidly developing area driven by innova-
tion that is radically changing the world we live in. This Computing for
Robotic Systems course provides a unique opportunity to develop highly
marketable skills in the key areas that define modern robotics.
Modern robotic systems strongly depend on the effective integra-
tion of computer science and robotic engineering. This course involves
studying almost the entire robotic system; from the low-level hardware,
through the middleware control systems, all the way up to cognitive
robotics at the highest level. The integration of robotic systems engineer-
ing and computing will allow you to become a skilled computer scientist
capable of developing advanced integrated robotic systems.
Our approach to teaching combines technical expertise with creativ-
ity and imagination. On this course you will make use of our modern
well equipped workshops, laboratories, computer facilities, media stu-
dios, and of course, our state-of-the-art robotic systems that you will
study and develop. These include the Baxter research robot1, the Nao
humanoid robot2, and Robothespian3. This course has been developed
to meet the requirements of the emerging robotics market, and is under-
pinned by world leading robotics research in the department.
1http://www.rethinkrobotics.com/products/baxter
2http://www.aldebaran.com/en
3https://www.engineeredarts.co.uk/
7

--- Page 70 ---
2. Overview and Programme Aims
We are known for having a friendly, and inclusive community of staff
and students on the Wheatley Campus.
2.2 Aims of the programme
Students completing the programme will initially learn the fundamental
principles of computer science and robotic engineering. The theoreti-
cal components will be examined and the coursework will give students
the opportunity to demonstrate competence in the practical application
of the theoretical principles taught. Through project based learning and
small scale robotic system development students will develop the prob-
lem solving skills needed to develop and integrate software and hardware
components in a functioning robot. The final year project will provide an
opportunity to put into practice the range of theory and practical skills
that have been acquired by the creation of a robotics system to solve a
significant problem.
8

--- Page 71 ---
3
Programme Learning Outcomes
On completion of this programme, students will be able to:
3.1 Academic literacy
Attribute Learning Outcome
A1 Contribute to the creation of new software artefacts
by applying the key concepts and ways of working
derived from a deep understanding of the
fundamental principles of computer science as
informed by robotics engineering concepts and
practices.
A2 Incorporate risk management and an understanding
of security issues in the design, development,
maintenance and use of information and robotic
engineering systems.
A3 Apply principles and theoretical aspects of computer
science, electronics, and mathematics to the
analysis, construction and evaluation of software
artefacts and robotic systems.
A4 Create integrated robotic systems from software,
electronic and mechanical components.
9

--- Page 72 ---
3. Programme Learning Outcomes
3.2 Research literacy
Attribute Learning Outcome
R1 Apply the scientific method and report findings using
accepted formalisms.
R2 Identify and utilise trustworthy information sources,
such as the IEEE Digital Library to develop a coherent
understanding of issues in computing and robotics.
R3 Apply active research skills to a small scale research
project in the context of an existing research theme.
3.3 Critical self-awareness and personal
literacy
Attribute Learning Outcome
C1 Evaluate and reflect on the evolution of their
strengths and weaknesses across the range of
subject based competences involved in computing
and robotic systems.
C2 Apply self-awareness in evaluating their impact in
team based work and utilise appropriate
communication and problem resolution strategies.
10

--- Page 73 ---
3.4. Digital and information literacy
3.4 Digital and information literacy
Attribute Learning Outcome
D1 Use appropriate technologies such as online libraries
and databases to find, critically evaluate and utilise
both non specialist (e.g. reports) and technical (e.g.
APIs and Electronic and Mechanical Component
Data sheets) information.
D2 Demonstrate proficiency in a range of formal and
informal modes of communication such as giving
presentations to groups, writing reports and writing
appropriate documentation.
3.5 Active citizenship
Attribute Learning Outcome
G1 Demonstrate an awareness of, and work in a manner
guided by, the legal, professional, ethical and social
issues relevant to the IT and Robotics industry.
G2 Evaluate the impact of the development, use and
maintenance of integrated robotic engineering
systems in commercial, economic and social
contexts in both national and international settings.
11

--- Page 74 ---


--- Page 75 ---
4
Programme Structure and
Curriculum
4.1 Programme structure and requirements
The following level 4 modules are compulsory for the BSc (Hons) Com-
puting for Robotic Systems,BSc Computing for Robotic Systems,DipHE
Computing for Robotic Systems, and CertHE Computing for Robotic
Systems.
Level 4
Module Module title Credits Status Semester Pre-
of delivery requisites
U08007 Professional 30 Compulsory 1 and 2 -
Software System
Design
U08008 Understanding 30 Compulsory 1 -
Programming
U08009 Introduction to 15 Compulsory 2 U08008
Object Oriented
Programming
U08606 Discrete 15 Compulsory 2 -
Mathematics
U08500 Introductory 30 Compulsory 1 and 2 -
Robotics
13

--- Page 76 ---
4. Programme Structure and Curriculum
The following level 5 modules are compulsory or optional, as indicated,
for the BSc (Hons) Computing for Robotic Systems,and BSc Computing
for Robotic Systems. A DipHE Computing for Robotic Systems requires
120 credits from the compulsory level 5 modules on this list.
Level 5
Module Module title Credits Status Semester Pre-
of delivery requisites
U08055 Professional 15 Compulsory 1 U08007,
Issues and for BSc U08008
Computer Risks (Hons) and
BSc
U08025 Foundations of 15 Compulsory 1 U08009,
Computation U08606
U08026 Further Object 15 Compulsory 1 U08009
Oriented
Programming
U08027 Current 15 Compulsory 2 U08007,
Research U08008
U08226 Foundations of 15 Compulsory 2 U08009
Security
U08520 Advanced 30 Compulsory 1 and 2 U08500
Robotics
U08521 Robotic Systems 15 Compulsory 2 U08009
Engineering
U08223 Data Structures 15 Compulsory 2 U08026
U08048 Requirement 15 Optional 2 U08007
Specification
and Software
Design
U08028 Software 15 Optional 1 U08009
Development
with Cand C++
U08038 The Human 15 Optional 2 U08009
Computer
Interface
U08868 Independent 15 Optional 1 or 2
study Level 5
14

--- Page 77 ---
4.1. Programme structure and requirements
The following level 6 modules are compulsory or optional, as indi-
cated, for the BSc (Hons) Computing for Robotic Systems. These mod-
ules are similarly compulsory or optional for BSc Computing for Robotic
Systems, apart from U08599 Robotics Project, which is not compulsory.
Level 6
Module Module title Credits Status Semester Pre-
of delivery requisites
U08599 Robotics Project 30 Compulsory 1 and 2 U08055
U08570 Cognitive 15 Compulsory 1 U08027
Robotics
U08089 Machine 15 Compulsory 1 U08025
Learning
U08781 Machine Vision 15 Compulsory 2 U08223
U08571 Real-time 15 Optional 2 U08521
Embedded
Robotic Systems
U08186 Advanced 15 Optional 1 U08223
Object Oriented
Programming
U08074 Reasoning about 15 Optional 2 U08025
Functional
Programs
U08282 Algorithms and 15 Optional 1 U08223
Advanced Data
Structures
U08079 Optimised 15 Optional 2 U08223,
Programming U08028
U08085 Communicating 15 Optional 1 or 2 U08055,
and Teaching U08009
Computer
Science
U08088 Independent 15 Optional 1 or 2
study Level 6
15

--- Page 78 ---
4. Programme Structure and Curriculum
The following diagram shows a typical programme of study,with optional
modules indicated with a light gray background.
Year 1 U08008 U08007
Semester 1 Understanding Programming Professional U08500
Software Introductory
U08009 U08606 System Robotics
Year 1 Introduction Discrete Design
Semester 2 to OOP Mathematics
Year 2
Semester 1 U08055 U08025 U08026
Professional Foundations Further
Issues and of Object
Risks Computation Oriented
Program-
ming U08520
Advanced
Year 2 Robotics
Semester 2 U08027 U08521 U08223 Data
Current Robotic Structures
Research Systems
Engineering
U08065
Industrial Work Experience Placement
Placement
Year
Final year
Semester 1 U08570 U08089 U08028
Cognitive Machine Software
Robotics Learning Development
with C and
U08599
C++
Robotics
Final year Project
Semester 2 U08226 U08781 U08571
Foundations Machine Real-time
of Security Vision Embedded
Robotic
Systems
16

--- Page 79 ---
4.2. Professional requirements
4.2 Professional requirements
The intention is to submit the programme for accreditation by both the
IET (the Institute of Engineering and Technology) and the BCS (British
Computer Society) after the first cohort have completed, according to
IET and BCS requirements. IET and BCS criteria have been taken into
account when designing the programme.
17

--- Page 80 ---


--- Page 81 ---
5
Programme Delivery
5.1 Teaching, Learning and Assessment
Students will attend lectures to acquire the knowledge and understand-
ing of the key concepts in both computing and robotics.
Practical elements of the course will enable students to practice es-
sential skills in a variety of contexts, and build a wide set of experi-
ences on which to reflect and develop professional expertise. For more
technical skills, including programming, the practical elements will be
based around laboratory classes, allowing students to experiment with
the technology in a controlled environment. Essential skills of robotic
system design and construction will be taught in a project based learn-
ing environment. A problem based learning approach is taken at both
levels 4 and 5, as preparation for the final year robotics project. This
project involves working in an independent manner to solve a significant
practical problem applying robotic systems engineering.
Several modules will include an element of team working, enabling
students to collaborate with their peers,developing an awareness of their
own abilities as reflected by feedback from others. Team work will also be
used to assess the students’ acquisition of personal and inter-personal
skills,so important for this degree,and equally important for most career
paths in the industry.
Academic Literacy will be assessed through a mixture of examina-
tion,coursework,and project outcome assessment,testing the students’
ability to explain key concepts, and to apply them to practical problem
solving. This academic knowledge will be developed through all three
years of the degree programme, with foundation material assumed and
assessed through the prerequisite structure.
19

--- Page 82 ---
5. Programme Delivery
Research Literacy is primarily assessed in the compulsory final year
project module, but students will have learned and practised these skills
throughout the course in both theoretical,and robot problem based learn-
ing modules.
Critical Self-awareness and Personal Literacy will be supported through
the ongoing use of a Professional Development Plan (PDP). This will form
a part of the students’ induction to the degree, and will be maintained
throughout their time at Oxford Brookes, culminating in a pre-career re-
flection, assessed as part of their final year project.
Digital and Information Literacy is fundamental to the academic con-
tent of this degree, and will be a distinguishing feature of graduates from
the programme. For example, the use of component based system de-
velopment methodologies will be taught and assessed throughout many
of the modules. Part of the assessment for these modules will be based
on the student’s ability to locate, read, and evaluate appropriate docu-
mentation for software and hardware components,as well as their ability
to document their own software and robotic systems.
Active Citizenship in modern society is increasingly mediated by tech-
nology, where digital communication and social media forms the basis
of agile citizenship,enabling disparate communities to integrate and col-
laborate. Graduates from this programme will be developing new tech-
nologies that will have a major impact in healthcare, education, and the
wider society. This has wide ranging legal, ethical, social, and profes-
sional implications, which are assessed at each level of the programme.
The department hosts an increasingly rich array of leading edge robotics
systems in purpose built laboratories. Development environments are
available for these systems that enable students to use them in a safe
and flexible manner. Problem based learning modules and the final year
project module will take full advantage of these facilities. The students
also have controlled access to manufacturing facilities to construct spe-
cialist robot components. These activities are supported by specialist
Technical Instructors.
Compulsory modules provide a balance of assessments,appropriate
to the learning outcomes of the programme. In particular, early modules
are assessed on the basis of key technical, professional and learning
skills, chosen to enable and enhance a student’s aptitude for life-long
learning. As students master key skills,the issues associated with quality
products and processes will play an increasingly important part of the
module content.
The assessment strategy on this programme implements the Oxford
Brookes University Assessment Compact. The assessments on this pro-
20

--- Page 83 ---
5.2. Assessment regulations
gramme have been designed to ensure that graduates possess the nec-
essary technical skills,shaped by the underlying theory,that are required
by the robotic engineering industry. Feedback on the assessment tasks
will emphasise the achievements of the learning outcomes of the mod-
ules and the programme. In addition,continuous formative feedback will
be given to students through the problem based learning modules,either
through laboratory sessions or individual tutorial guidance. Students will
be encouraged to relate the assessment tasks with professional activi-
ties, and to relate their achievements with professional standards.
The department is committed to inclusivity and diversity in its teach-
ing. By the very nature of the discipline, virtually all of our teaching
material is available in an accessible format, for which we follow best
practice guidelines, and make our electronic material available before
the lectures. We also use electronic references and ebooks to further
enhance accessibility. Inclusivity and diversity is also embedded in what
we teach. As such all new students have a lecture on inclusivity and
diversity as part of their induction and important inclusivity and diver-
sity topics such as the need for accessibility and internationalisation and
how to achieve them are taught on a variety of modules throughout the
degree.
5.2 Assessment regulations
The programme conforms to the Regulations of the University’s Under-
graduate Framework: http://www.brookes.ac.uk/regulations.
21

--- Page 84 ---


--- Page 85 ---
6
Admissions
6.1 Entry criteria
Typical offers are:
• A-level: BBC or equivalent, preferably including science subjects
• IB Diploma: 30 points, preferably including science
• Advanced Diploma: grade B including A-level grade C, preferably
in a science subject and excluding General Studies
• BTEC National Diploma with a DDM profile, preferably in a science
subject.
Specific entry requirements
• GCSE: Mathematics at grade C minimum, and English Language
at grade C minimum.
6.2 DBS checks
Not normally required.
23

--- Page 86 ---


--- Page 87 ---
7
Student Support and Guidance
Support and guidance is available to students throughout the programme,
starting from when they first arrive before the course begins.
During induction week,students are given handbooks and other doc-
umentation explaining the choices available to them on the programme,
and how the systems at Oxford Brookes work. Each student is supported
throughout the course by one of the tutors, who will be their Academic
Advisor. The Programme Lead, Subject Coordinators and Student Sup-
port Coordinators (SSCs) are also available for consultation.
Throughout the programme,module descriptions and programme hand-
books, alongside online resources available through the virtual learning
environment, provide a great deal of guidance for students. In addition,
they can get help and guidance from their Programme Lead, Subject
Coordinator, Academic Adviser, and the department’s Student Support
Coordinators. They can also get module specific advice from the Module
Leader and any of the staff teaching on the relevant module, and from
the specialist Technical Instructors.
At the University level, there are dedicated support services both for
specific groups of students such as Oxford Brookes International and the
Disability Advisory Service and for all students such as Upgrade - our
study skills development/support service. A full range of support ser-
vices is offered to students seeking graduate roles, and to those looking
for placements. Support includes placement officers, career advisers
and counsellors, and all students are strongly encouraged to take ad-
vantage of these opportunities.
Each programme has at least one student representative. These are
voted into position by the students on the programme and provide a
mechanism for issues and concerns to be fed back through the depart-
25

--- Page 88 ---
7. Student Support and Guidance
ment’s committee structure. Student representatives sit on departmental
committees concerned with programme management and course de-
velopment and also attend monthly student forums which are meetings
specifically for the representatives to bring forward student concerns.
26

--- Page 89 ---
8
Graduate Employability
Graduates from this programme will develop a career in a dynamic and
emerging market for advanced robot systems across a broad spectrum
of application areas. The programme gives students a thorough ground-
ing in the practice of computer science and integrates this with the theory
and practice of robotic systems. Graduates will be well positioned to take
up careers in industry such as Robotics Engineer, Control Engineer, and
Software Engineer, with the ability to specialise in Systems Integration.
There are very strong international trends in the field of robotics, ma-
jor corporations such as Apple, Amazon and Google are investing heav-
ily in the field beyond the already existing interest of manufacturers and
defence industries. The European Research Council has opened two
new calls for research in robotics next to the existing research targets
for ICT. Growth of the robotics field, both in terms of employment and
expenditure, has been significant even through the current recession. It
is also recognised as a UK essential growth market by the British gov-
ernment.1,2,3
The external technological factors are based on the industrial tech-
nology and governmental forecasts. The growth of the robotics market
is continuing in the industrial sectors but has seen significant growth in
precision manufacturing and service sectors. A recent study of the In-
ternational Federation of Robotics has shown that the robotics industry
itself is responsible for the creation of close to three million jobs world-
1http://spectrum.ieee.org/automaton/robotics/industrial-robots/apple-amazon-
and-now-google-an-exciting-time-for-robotics
2http://horizon-magazine.eu/article/robotics-2020-challenge-and-target-
europe_en.html
3http://roboticsnews.co.uk/permalink/5986.html
27

--- Page 90 ---
8. Graduate Employability
wide with an expected growth of another million by 2016.4
4www.ifr.org/robots-create-jobs
28

--- Page 91 ---
9
Links with Employers
Many modules use guest speakers from industry to illustrate the practi-
cal application of the module material. The Current Research module in
the second year (level 5) is delivered by research active staff and guest
speakers from industry and from research and development labs. Po-
tential employers are keen to talk to a wider spectrum of students, but
will want to discuss the exact nature of their industry, as well as how
the students might contribute. The department is host to at least 12
‘Guru’ lectures, delivered as part of the BSc in Information Technology
Management for Business (ITMB) programme, but open to all students.
These are broadcast live at one ITMB university and over the internet by
the others, and include Q&A sessions. Topics complement a variety of
technical and professional learning outcomes.
All students may take a year out in industry. Employers are keen to
promote their companies and the opportunities offered. Even for stu-
dents who do not take a placement year, this can provide a good insight
into the type of jobs available, and the skills employers are looking for.
Students who do take a work placement may bring ideas for final year
projects back with them, and are noticeably more able to contribute in-
sights into industrial applications to the modules they take in their final
year.
The department maintains close links with the university Careers Of-
fice. Themed ‘mini’ careers fairs are organised by this office – with tech-
nology being a common theme. Students are encouraged to use the
facilities offered, including CV workshops, and practice interviews and
assessment-centre activities.
An Industrial Advisory Board is run within the department, with se-
nior employees of regional and representative organisations (including
29

--- Page 92 ---
9. Links with Employers
robotics companies) as members. These are Rutherford Appleton Lab-
oratory, Webmart, OBIS, NAG, Oxfam, Oxford County Council, Omn-
ima, Vicon, OMG, and BT. The board is consulted on major initiatives
within the department, including programme revalidation, possible re-
search partnerships, future trends and directions, and the feasibility of
new course offerings.
An alumni organisation has recently been formed in the department.
The aim is to invite ex-students who are now in a variety of technical
and managerial roles, to network with each other, and with our current
students. It is anticipated that this organisation will be of great benefit to
students starting out on their careers, as well as for more senior alumni
looking to exploit the skills and expertise of the staff and students in the
department.
Research centres within the department are actively involved with
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships, and other links with employer organ-
isations. For example, we have formed research links with Engineered
Arts Ltd, who make Robothespian, Sony, Clearview Traffic, UKP World-
wide, Nominet, WildKnowledge, and Omnima. One of the spin-offs from
these activities is the on-campus presence of industrial-based experts
in fields closely related to our degree offerings.
The department has strong links with the leading manufacturers of
robotics systems in the United Kingdom, and work closely with them on
robotic system research and development.
30

--- Page 93 ---
10
Quality Management
The primary indicators of quality come through regular student feedback,
module reviews, external examiners’ reports, annual and periodic pro-
gramme reviews and student surveys. Student feedback on a module
is gathered using the standard university feedback form and is sum-
marised by the administration team within the faculty. This summary
is incorporated into the module report documentation used to inform the
module review at the Subject Committee which is attended by the stu-
dent representative for the subject. Responses to the student feedback
for each module are agreed at this meeting. These responses are acted
upon and included in the following year’s module handbook. The min-
utes of the subject committee that summarise the discussion of mod-
ule reviews are then presented at the Subject Examination Committee
meeting where comments are invited from the External Examiners. Any
changes to module delivery and/or content which arise out of this review
process are communicated to the Subject Committee chair who has the
responsibility of ensuring that they are implemented.
Each module is assigned an Internal Moderator who has the respon-
sibility for checking the quality of the examination papers and the course-
work specifications before they are sent to the External Examiner for
comments. Examination papers and coursework specification may be
modified in the light of the External’s comments before submission to
the University Examination Office. The Internal Moderator also verifies
the quality of marking of the assessments on a module, based on a ran-
domly selected sample.
The programme as a whole is reviewed annually through the Univer-
sity Annual Review procedure. This review assesses the quality of teach-
ing, learning and assessment and the overall academic standards of the
31

--- Page 94 ---
10. Quality Management
programme. It takes into account student progression and compares
the overall performance of students against the University benchmark.
The Annual Review considers and responds to the comments from the
External Examiners.
Programmes are reviewed normally on a six year periodic cycle in
accordance with the provisions of the quality framework set by the Uni-
versity.
The National Student Survey of final year students provides valuable
annual feedback on the student experience. The results of the NSS are
evaluated at both Department and Faculty level and an action plan is
drawn up to ensure that the necessary changes are made to improve the
student experience.
Regular Student Forum meetings are held during semester to give the
student representatives a forum to present and discuss the concerns of
the student body. The forums are attended by senior members of the
department.
The Industrial Advisory Board is valuable in involving employers and
other stakeholders in the development of all Computing programmes in-
cluding Computing for Robotic Systems. The Board meets on a regular
basis to discuss the research and the teaching that is done in the de-
partment. Comments are invited from Board members on the portfolio
of programmes and on any new programme developments.
32