--- Page 1 ---
STEMAspire

--- Page 2 ---
Dell Technologies - UK STEMAspire
1 Introducing STEMAspire
Today’s
2 Successes So Far
Agenda
3 Understanding Mentoring
4 What’s expected of You
5 Next Steps
Internal Use -Confidential 2of Y © Copyright 2019 Dell Inc.

--- Page 3 ---
Introducing UK STEMAspire
What you get as part of UK STEMAspire
For Female STEM students to support
their transition from education to
careers within STEM Industries
(25% of UK STEM Students are female but
73% don’t pursue a career in STEM)
Build Bi-Monthly Your own Benefit from Experti.se with
Confidence & Event - Monthly 1:1 Industry Partner
Transferable Group Learning Mentoring Experience Organisations
Skills Support
~400 Mentees since since 2017
Internal Use -Confidential 3of Y © Copyright 2019 Dell Inc.

--- Page 4 ---
2020 / 21 - STEMAspire Group Events Roadmap
Note: Roadmap added to this presentation after STEMAspire check-ins
2020 2021
25 Nov: 3 Feb: 17 Mar: 21 Apr: 9 June: 4 Aug:
STEMASPIRE AWARENESS WELLNESS CAREER PROFESSIONAL NETWORKING
LAUNCH OPPORTUNITIES IN PROFILING
DATA AND AI
Host / Partner Host / Partner Host / Partner Host / Partner Host / Partner Host / Partner
Dell Dell Technologies Dell Technologies Dell Technologies Dell Technologies Dell Technologies
Morgan Stanley Evelyn Walker The Data Lab Hays McGregor Boyall &
Ross Anderson Morgan Stanley LinkedIn
Topics Topics Topics Topics Topics Topics
• Introduction • Self-Awareness • Mental Health • Career pathways in • CV Writing • Networking
• Q&A with Mark • Imposter Syndrome • Remote Working Data & AI • Interview Skills • LinkedIn profiling
• Keynote Speakers • Future of Workplace • Study opportunities • Professional branding
• Expectations
• Ice Breakers
• Meet your
Mentor/Mentee
Internal Use -Confidential 4of Y © Copyright 2019 Dell Inc.

--- Page 5 ---
What some of our mentees have said!
“I Found all the tests to match with
the mentor where useful as we
matched well. Getting invaluable
interview tips and cv skills. It has
helped us Identify job opportunities
and has helped to apply to jobs in
this sector”
Leigh McCracken, omputer
Networking, CGC
“Mentoring programmes should be
embedded into academic courses.
Every student should participate in a
Mentoring Programme. I definitely
encourage this program to continue
and help others in my situation”
Madihah Bhatti, Information
Technology, UWS
Internal Use -Confidential 5of Y © Copyright 2019 Dell Inc.

--- Page 6 ---
What is Mentoring about? Empowerment!
“…a developmental relationship where a more knowledgeable / experienced person, provides
guidance, advice and access to their network to a mentee within STEMAspire programme…”
Over a set period of time, in which an established business person Impartial
(mentor) provides consistent support, guidance and practical help for
Consistent Guidance
1-2-1 a less experienced person (mentee).
Support
Relationship
Goal
Setting
Mentee or Mentor can end the relationship at any point but both
Mentor and Mentee should notify the STEMAspire core team. Mentors
& Mentees can also continue their mentoring relationship after the
Voluntary
duration of the programme if they see fit.
Relationship
Mentor shares their personal skills, knowledge and experience with
the Mentee to enable the Mentee to explore their personal and
professional situation. The Mentor and Mentee work together to
2-way Process achieve predetermined goals and objectives.
Internal Use -Confidential 6of Y © Copyright 2019 Dell Inc.

--- Page 7 ---
Building Trust in a Mentoring Relationship
Talk about life at
uni/college and outside Discuss issues as
of it. Try to understand soon as they arise.
your respective points Ask for and give
of view - value their Feedback.
Get to
viewpoint Be open
know
and
your
honest
mentor
Don’t be
Be
afraid to
reliable
challenge
Do what you say
you’re going to do. Challenge your
Agree on aims during mentor constructively
your mentoring to explore a wider
sessions. Stick to viewpoint.
them!
Internal Use -Confidential 7of Y © Copyright 2019 Dell Inc.

--- Page 8 ---
What is expected of you?
Who is eligible to become a STEMAspire Mentee?
Female students studying a Science, Technology, Engineering or Maths related subject
Your personal Commitment
Mentee Commitments – I agree to:
1. Participate in the Dell Technologies STEMAspire program for a period of up to12 months
2. Meet with my Mentor on a monthly basis (Face to Face where possible, Telephone, Zoom, Teams)
3. Agree with my mentor the support that I need
4. Participate in the group training events (typically every 2 months or so)
5. Build an action plan with my Mentor, complete follow up actions and review progress on a regular basis
6. Listen and consider all feedback received through my Mentor
7. Always maintain professional standards
8. Complete my Learning Log supplied by the STEMAspire Program
9. Mentor sharing pre-agreed updates from STEM Aspire Events.
10. Events being recorded by Dell Tech / Partners and shared on Social Media
Internal Use -Confidential 8of Y © Copyright 2019 Dell Inc.

--- Page 9 ---
