--- Page 1 ---
Proggramme Speccificatioon
Commputer Sciencce
Validd from: Septemmber 20014
Facuulty of Technoology, Designn and EEnvironment

--- Page 2 ---
SECTION 1: GENERAL INFORMATION
Awarding body: Oxford Brookes University
Teaching institution and location: Oxford Brookes University
Final award: BSc (Hons)
Programme title: Computer Science
Interim exit awards and award titles: CertHE, DipHE, BSc
Brookes course code: SD
UCAS/UKPASS code: Depends on combination of fields
JACS code: G400
Mode of delivery: Face-to-face
Mode/s of study: Full-time, part-time
Language of study: English
Relevant QAA subject benchmark Computing (2007)
statement/s:
External accreditation/recognition: N/A
(applicable to programmes with
professional body approval)
Faculty managing the programme: Technology, Design and Environment (TDE)
Date of production (or most recent December 2014
revision) of specification:
SECTION 2: OVERVIEW AND PROGRAMME AIMS
2.1 Rationale for/distinctiveness of the programme
Computer Science is a fast paced and exciting discipline that thrives on innovation and has
the potential to change the world. For example, computer scientists developed the world
wide web twenty years ago and nothing has been the same since. Two decades later we are
still coming to terms with its potential; recent developments include social media,
smartphones and tablet computers. To be an effective practitioner in this area requires the
ability to stay up to date with rapidly changing technologies and the competance to apply
these technologies effectively. Studying computer science equips students with the
professional skills, techniques and ways of thinking needed to be able to persue a successful
career. It also underpins this with the theoretical concepts necessary to give the solid
conceptual foundations on which to build a lifetime of learning.
The design of our programmes is informed by state of the art research being undertaken in
the department. For example, Prof. David Duce, an internationally renowned academic

--- Page 3 ---
involved in the development of the world wide web through the web standards body (W3C),
teaches students about advanced web technologies on our undergraduate programme.
Students on our programmes have access to highly specialised computer laboratories where
they learn the practical application of cutting edge theoretical skills and techniques.
2.2 Aim/s of the programme
Students completing the programme will have gained a thorough grounding in computer
programming and an understanding of relevant theory and contextual issues. They will also
have a good understanding of the role of programming in the software development process.
The theoretical components will have been examined and the coursework will have given the
students the opportunity to demonstrate competence in the practical application of the
theoretical principles taught. The final year dissertation, if taken, will have provided an
opportunity to put into practice the range of theory and practical skills that have been
acquired by the creation of a substantial software artefact.
Page 2 of 9

--- Page 4 ---
SECTION 3: PROGRAMME LEARNING OUTCOMES
Knowledge, understanding and skills:
3.1 Academic literacy
Contribute to the creation of new software artefacts by applying the key concepts
A1 and ways of working derived from a deep understanding of the fundamental
principles of the discipline as informed by an operational context.
Incorporate risk management and an understanding of information security issues
A2
in the design, development, maintenance and use of information systems.
Create abstractions from observed patterns encountered across the whole
A12 spectrum of real world problem domains to facilitate the analysis and synthesis of
relevant solutions
3.2 Research literacy
Apply the scientific method and report findings using accepted formalisms.
B1
Identify and utilise trustworthy information sources, such as the ACM Digital
B2
Library to develop a coherent understanding of issues in the domain.
3.3 Critical self-awareness and personal literacy
Evaluate and reflect on the evolution of their strengths and weaknesses across the
C1 range of subject based competences involved in their chosen domain through the
creation and implementation of a discipline based personal development plan.
Apply self-awareness in evaluating their impact in team based work and utilise
C2 appropriate communication and problem resolution strategies.
3.4 Digital and information literacy
Use appropriate technologies such as online libraries and databases to find,
D1 critically evaluate and utilise both non specialist (e.g. reports) and technical (e.g.
APIs and RFCs) information
Demonstrate proficiency in a range of formal and informal modes of
D2 communication such as giving presentations to groups, writing reports and writing
software documentation.
3.5 Global citizenship
Demonstrate an awareness of, and work in a manner guided by, the legal,
E1 professional, ethical and social issues relevant to the IT and telecommunications
industry.
Page 3 of 9

--- Page 5 ---
SECTION 4: PROGRAMME STRUCTURE AND CURRICULUM
4.1 Programme structure and requirements:
The following modules are acceptable for the subject. Students must pass all modules
marked ‘Compulsory’ as well as meeting the usual university rules for undergraduate
programmes.
LEVEL: 4
Module Semester Pre-requisites
Module Title Credits Status
code of delivery
U08008 Modern Computer Technology 30 Compulsory 1 -
Introduction to Object Oriented U08008
U08009 15 Compulsory 2
Programming
U08606 Discrete Mathematics 15 Compulsory 2 -
LEVEL: 5
Module Semester Pre-requisites
Module Title Credits Status
code of delivery
Professional Issues and U08007,
U08055 Compulsory 1
Computer Risks 15 U08008
Further Object Oriented U08009
U08026 Compulsory 1
Programming 15
U08026
U08223 2
Data Structures 15 Compulsory
Requirement Specification and U08007
U08048 2
Software Design 15 Compulsory
U08008
U08054 1
Web Technology 15 Optional
Software Development with C U08009
U08028 1
and C++ 15 Optional
U08009
U08049 1
Complex and Structured Data 15 Optional
The Human Computer U08009
U08038 2
Interface 15 Optional
Business Intelligence U08009
U08037 2
Programming 15 Optional
U08055
U08065 1 and 2
Work Experience Placement 0 Optional
LEVEL: 6
Module Semester Pre-requisites
Module Title Credits Status
code of delivery
U08096 Project 30 Optional 1 and 2 U08055
Advanced Object Oriented U08223
U08186 15 Optional 1
Programming
U08073 Advanced Web Technology 15 Optional 2 U08054
U08072 Software Analysis and Testing 15 Optional 1 U08048
U08784 Software Project Management 15 Optional 2 U08048
Algorithms and Advanced Data U08223
U08282 15 Optional 1
Structures
U08781 Machine Vision 15 Optional 2 U08223
Communicating and Teaching U08055,
U08085 15 Optional 1 and 2
Computer Science U08009
Page 4 of 9

--- Page 6 ---
Page 5 of 9

--- Page 7 ---
4.2 Professional requirements
Currently none.
SECTION 5: PROGRAMME DELIVERY
5.1 Teaching, Learning and Assessment
Students will attend lectures to acquire the knowledge and understanding of the key
concepts in both networking and computing modules.
Practical elements of the course will enable students to practice essential skills in a variety of
contexts, and build a wide set of experiences on which to reflect and develop professional
expertise. For more technical skills, including programming, the practical elements will be
based around laboratory classes, allowing students to experiment with the technology in a
controlled environment. Dependent on the choice of modules, it is likely that a larger
proportion of the assessment for these types of modules will be coursework.
Several modules will include an element of team working, enabling students to collaborate
with their peers, developing an awareness of their own abilities as reflected by feedback from
others. Team work will also be used to assess the students’ acquisition of personal and inter-
personal skills, so important for this degree, and equally important for most career paths in
the industry.
Academic literacy will be assessed through a mixture of examination and coursework, testing
the students’ ability to explain key concepts, and to apply them to practical problem solving.
This academic knowledge will be developed through all three years of the degree
programme, with foundation material assumed and assessed through the prerequisite
structure.
Research literacy is primarily assessed in the compulsory dissertation module, but students
will have learned and practised these skills in a number of earlier, core modules.
Self-awareness and personal literacy will be supported through the ongoing use of a
Professional Development Plan (PDP). This will form a part of the students’ induction to the
degree, and will be maintained throughout their time at Oxford Brookes, culminating in a pre-
career reflection, assessed as part of their dissertation.
Digital and information literacy is fundamental to the academic content of this degree, and
will be a distinguishing feature of graduates from the programme. In particular, the use of
software tools for system development will be taught and assessed throughout many of the
modules, and part of the assessment for these modules will be based on the student’s ability
to locate, read, and evaluate appropriate documentation for software tools, as well as their
ability to document their own software and system artefacts.
Effective and innovative use of ICT is also a key part of the department’s strategy. The
department uses a variety of VLE’s (tailored to what is being taught) and makes extensive
use of ebooks, online videos, podcasts and other electronic resources. The department has
also developed ICT systems to help delivery of teaching (e.g. web accessible virtual
machines, XML & SVG based teaching documentation that can be easily transformed for a
variety of accessible media), learning (e.g. twitter to encourage group working, survey
monkey feedback by students at the end of each lecture on the module to gauge student
comprehension) and assessment (e.g. systems for automating feedback).
Graduates from this programme will develop a career in a world that is increasingly
dependent on information technology, and in which major social, political and economic
Page 6 of 9

--- Page 8 ---
endeavours are enabled by the technology. Students will develop an awareness of their
global citizenship through the core modules of the programme, especially those emphasizing
the evolution of modern computing technology, and current research directions.
Core modules provide a balance of assessments, appropriate to the learning outcomes of
the programme. In particular, early core modules are assessed on the basis of key technical,
professional and learning skills, most likely to enable and enhance a student’s aptitude for
life-long learning. As students master core skills, the issues associated with quality products
and processes will play an increasingly important part of the module content. Assessment
tasks will be specified in the context of the importance of quality assurance in the IT and
telecommunications industry, and criteria for success in assessments will mirror those
needed in the work place.
By paying due regard to the Oxford Brookes University Assessment Compact, the
assessments on this programme have been designed to develop learning of technical skills,
shaped by the underlying theory, and requirements of the industry. Assessment does not
present students with a set of hurdles, but rather guides them through the staged acquisition
of a complex set of professional skills, so that, by the time they graduate, they are ready to
play an effective role in their chosen career. Feedback on the assessment tasks will be
provided in a timely manner, emphasizing achievement of the learning outcomes of the
modules and the programme. Students will be encouraged to relate the assessment tasks
with professional activities, and to relate their achievements with professional standards.
Where appropriate, self- and peer- assessment will be used to encourage students to involve
themselves in their own professional development.
The department is committed to inclusivity and diversity in its teaching. By the very nature of
the discipline, virtually all of our teaching material is available in an accessible format and
where possible we follow best practice guidelines and make our electronic material available
before the lectures. We also use electronic references and ebooks to further enhance
accessibility. Inclusivity and diversity is also embedded in what we teach. As such all new
students have a lecture on inclusivity and diversity as part of their induction and important
inclusivity and diversity topics such as the need for accessibility and internationalization and
how to achieve them are taught on a variety of modules throughout the degree.
5.2 Assessment regulations
The programme conforms to the University Regulations of the University's Undergraduate
Framework.
Page 7 of 9

--- Page 9 ---
SECTION 6: ADMISSIONS
6.1 Entry criteria
Typical offers
 A-level: BBC or equivalent, preferably including science subjects
 IB Diploma: 30 points, preferably including science
 Advanced Diploma: grade B including A-level grade C, preferably in a science subject
and excluding General Studies
 BTEC National Diploma with a DDM profile, preferably in a science subject.
Specific entry requirements
 GCSE: Mathematics at grade B minimum, and English Language at grade C
minimum.
Students for whom English is not their main language also need to show that their English is
at a high enough level to succeed in their studies. The minimum English language
requirements are specified at
http://www.brookes.ac.uk/studying-at-brookes/courses/undergraduate/2014/computer-
science/
6.2 DBS checks
Not normally required
SECTION 7: STUDENT SUPPORT AND GUIDANCE
Support and guidance is available to students throughout the programme, starting from when
they first arrive before the course begins.
During induction week, students are given handbooks and other documentation explaining
the choices available to them on the programme, and how the systems at Oxford Brookes
work. The Programme Lead, Subject Coordinators and Academic Advisors are available for
consultation as are the Student Support Coordinators (SSCs).
Throughout the programme, module and dissertation handbooks alongside online resources
available through the virtual learning environment provide a great deal of guidance for
students. In addition, they can get help and guidance from their Programme Lead, Subject
Coordinator, Academic Adviser (for first years) and the department’s Student Support
Coordinators. They can also get module specific advice from the Module Leader and any of
the staff teaching on the relevant module.
At the University level, there are dedicated support services both for specific groups of
students such as Oxford Brookes International and the Disability Advisory Service and for all
students such as Upgrade - our study skills development/support service. A full range of
support services is offered to students seeking graduate roles, and to those looking for
placements. Support includes placement officers, career advisers and counsellors, and all
students are strongly encouraged to take advantage of these opportunities.
Each programme has at least one student representative. These are voted into position by
the students on the programme and provide a mechanism for issues and concerns to be fed
back through the department’s committee structure. Student representatives sit on
Page 8 of 9

--- Page 10 ---
departmental committees concerned with programme management and course development
and also attend monthly student forums which are meetings specifically for the
representatives to bring forward student concerns.
SECTION 8: GRADUATE EMPLOYABILITY
Graduates from the programme will be well equipped for a career in the computing industry.
Graduates are employed across a whole range of careers from development roles in small
software houses, to the activities of IT departments in large, multinational corporations, to
more specialist roles for providers of IT and telecommunications services. These include
technical development roles, including software design and development, specialist product
support, and infrastructure and security management roles.
According to research conducted by eSkills UK, the National Sector Skills Council for IT and
Telecommunications, the IT professional workforce in the UK, has almost doubled since
1994, and is likely to continue growing at 5-8 times the average employment growth for the
coming decade. Recent graduates from this programme have been employed by, for
example, Sophos, Logica, Jaguar/Land Rover and IBM. Specific job titles include Software
Developer, Threat Researcher, Project Manager, Business Analyst and Web Developer.
SECTION 9: LINKS WITH EMPLOYERS
Many modules use guest speakers from industry to illustrate the practical application of the
module material. Potential employers are keen to talk to a more general audience of
students, but will discuss the nature of their Industry, as well as how the students might
contribute. The department is host to at least 12 ‘Guru’ lectures, delivered as part of the BSc
in Information Technology Management for Business (ITMB) programme, but open to all
students. These are broadcast live at one ITMB university and over the internet by the
others, and include Q&A sessions. Topics complement a variety of technical and
professional learning outcomes.
All students may take a year out in industry. Employers are keen to promote their companies
and the opportunities offered. Even for students who do not take a placement year, this can
provide a good insight into the type of jobs available, and the skills employers are looking for.
Students who do take a work placement may bring ideas for final year projects back with
them, and are noticeably more able to contribute insights into industrial applications to the
modules they take in their final year.
The department maintains close links with the university Careers Office. Themed ‘mini’
careers fairs are organised by this office – with technology being a common theme. Students
are encouraged to use the facilities offered, including CV workshops, and practice interviews
and assessment-centre activities.
An Industrial Liaison Board is run within the department, with senior employees of regional
and representative organisations as members. The board is consulted on major initiatives
within the department, including programme revalidations, possible research partnerships,
future trends and directions, and the feasibility of new course offerings.
An alumni organisation has recently been formed in the department. The aim is to invite ex-
students who are now in a variety of technical and managerial roles, to network with each
other, and with our current students. It is anticipated that this organisation will be of great
benefit to students starting out on their careers, as well as for more senior alumni looking to
exploit the skills and expertise of the staff and students in the department.
Page 9 of 9

--- Page 11 ---
Research centres within the department are actively involved with Knowledge Transfer
Partnerships, and other links with employer organisations. One of the spin-offs from these
activities is the on-campus presence of industrial-based experts in fields closely related to
our degree offerings.
SECTION 10: QUALITY MANAGEMENT
Indicators of quality/methods for evaluating the quality of provision
The primary indicators of quality come through regular student feedback, module reviews,
external examiners’ reports, annual and periodic programme reviews and student surveys.
Student feedback on a module is gathered using the standard university feedback form and
is summarised by the administration team within the faculty. This summary is incorporated
into the module report documentation used to inform the module review at the Subject
Committee which is attended by the student representative for the subject. The minutes of
the subject committee that summarise the discussion of module reviews are then presented
at the Subject Examination Committee meeting where comments are invited from the
External Examiners. Any changes to module delivery and/or content which arise out of this
review process are communicated to the Subject Committee chair who has the responsibility
of ensuring that they are implemented.
Each module is assigned an Internal Moderator who has the responsibility of checking the
quality of the examination papers and the coursework specifications before they are sent to
the External Examiner for comments. Examination papers and coursework specification may
be modified in the light of the External’s comments before submission to the University
Examination Office. The Internal Moderator also checks the quality of the marking of the
assessments on the module based on a randomly selected sample.
The programme as a whole is reviewed annually through the University Annual Review
procedure. This review assesses the quality of teaching, learning and assessment and the
overall academic standards of the programme. It takes into account student progression and
compares the overall performance of students against the University benchmark. The Annual
Review considers and responds to the comments from the External Examiners.
Programmes are reviewed normally on a five year periodic cycle in accordance with the
provisions of the quality framework set by the University.
The National Student Survey of final year students provides valuable annual feedback on the
student experience. The results of the NSS are evaluated at both Department and Faculty
level and an action plan is drawn up to ensure that the necessary changes are made to
improve the student experience.
Regular Student Forum meetings are held during semester to give the student
representatives a forum to present and discuss the concerns of the student body. The forums
are attended by senior members of the department.
The Industrial Advisory Board is valuable in involving employers and other stakeholders in
the development of the Computing programmes. The Board meet on an annual basis to
discuss the research and the teaching that is done in the department. Comments are invited
from Board members on the portfolio of programmes and on any new programme
developments.
Page 10 of 9