--- Page 1 ---
Programme Specification
Programme Specification
BSc (Hons) Computing for Robotic Systems
Valid from: September 2014
Faculty of Technology, Design and Environment
T2.7 updated August 2014

--- Page 2 ---
SECTION 1: GENERAL INFORMATION
Awarding body: Oxford Brookes University
Teaching institution and location: Oxford Brookes University
Final award: Bachelors of Science
Programme title: Computing for Robotic Systems
Interim exit awards and award titles: CertHE, DipHE, BSc
Brookes course code:
UCAS/UKPASS code:
JACS code:
Mode of delivery: Face-to-Face
Mode/s and duration of study: Full-time , Part-time
Language of study: English
Relevant QAA subject benchmark Computing (2007)
statement/s:
External accreditation/recognition: N/A
(applicable to programmes with
professional body approval)
Faculty managing the programme: Technology, Design and Environment (TDE)
Date of production (or most recent October 2014
revision) of specification:

--- Page 3 ---
SECTION 2: OVERVIEW AND PROGRAMME AIMS
2.1 Rationale for and/or Distinctive features of the programme
Robotics is an exciting and rapidly developing area driven by innovation that is radically changing the
world we live in. The Computing for Robotic Systems course provides a unique opportunity to develop
highly marketable skills in the key areas that define modern robotics.
Modern robotic systems strongly depend on the effective integration of computer science and robotic
engineering. This course involves studying almost the entire robotic system; from the low-level
hardware, through the middleware control systems, all the way up to cognitive robotics at the highest
level. The integration of robotic systems engineering and computing will allow you to become a skilled
computer scientist capable of developing advanced integrated robotic systems.
Our approach to teaching combines technical expertise with creativity and imagination. On this course
you will make use of our modern well equipped workshops, laboratories, computer facilities, media
studios, and of course, our state-of-the-art robotic systems that you will study and develop. These
include the Baxter research robot, the Nao humanoid robot and Robothespian. The course has been
developed to meet the requirements of the emerging robotics market and is underpinned by world
leading robotics research in the department.
2.2 Aim/s of the programme
Students completing the programme will learn the fundamental principles of computer science and
robotic engineering. The theoretical components will be examined and the coursework will give
students the opportunity to demonstrate competence in the practical application of the theoretical
principles taught. Through project based learning and small scale robotic system development students
will develop the problem solving skills needed to develop and integrate software and hardware
components in a functioning robot. The final year project will provide an opportunity to put into practice
the range of theory and practical skills that have been acquired by the creation of a robotics system to
solve a significant problem.

--- Page 4 ---
SECTION 3: PROGRAMME LEARNING OUTCOMES
On successful completion of the programme, graduates will demonstrate the following Brookes
Attributes:
3.1 Academic literacy
A1 Contribute to the creation of new software artefacts by applying the key concepts and ways of
working derived from a deep understanding of the fundamental principles of computer science
as informed by robotics engineering concepts and practices.
A2 Incorporate risk management and an understanding of security issues in the design,
development, maintenance and use of information and robotic engineering systems.
A3 Apply principles and theoretical aspects of computer science, electronics, and mathematics to the
analysis, construction and evaluation of software artefacts and robotic systems.
A4 Create integrated robotic systems from software, electronic and mechanical components.
3.2 Research literacy
R1 Apply the scientific method and report findings using accepted formalisms.
R2 Identify and utilise trustworthy information sources, such as the IEEE Digital Library to develop a
coherent understanding of issues in computing and robotics.
R3 Apply active research skills to a small scale research project in the context of an existing
research theme.
3.3 Critical self-awareness and personal literacy
C1 Evaluate and reflect on the evolution of their strengths and weaknesses across the range of
subject based competences involved in computing and robotic systems.
C2 Apply self-awareness in evaluating their impact in team based work and utilise appropriate
communication and problem resolution strategies.
3.4 Digital and information literacy
D1 Use appropriate technologies such as online libraries and databases to find, critically evaluate
and utilise both non specialist (e.g. reports) and technical (e.g. APIs and Electronic and
Mechanical Component Data sheets) information.
D2 Demonstrate proficiency in a range of formal and informal modes of communication such as
giving presentations to groups, writing reports and writing appropriate documentation.
3.5 Active citizenship
G1 Demonstrate an awareness of, and work in a manner guided by, the legal, professional, ethical
and social issues relevant to the IT and Robotics industry.
G2 Evaluate the impact of the development, use and maintenance of integrated robotic engineering
systems in commercial, economic and social contexts in both national and international settings.

--- Page 5 ---
SECTION 4: PROGRAMME STRUCTURE AND CURRICULUM
4.1 Programme structure and requirements:
The following level 4 modules are compulsory for the BSc (Hons) Computing for Robotic Systems, BSc
Computing for Robotic Systems, DipHE Computing for Robotic Systems, and CertHE Computing for
Robotic Systems
Level 4
Module Module title Credits Status Semester of Pre- requisites
delivery
U08007 Business 30 Compulsory 1 and 2 -
Computing
U08008 Modern Computer 30 Compulsory 1 -
Technology
U08009 Introduction to Object 15 Compulsory 2 U08008
Oriented
Programming
U08606 Discrete 15 Compulsory 2 -
Mathematics
U000IR Introductory 30 Compulsory 1 and 2 -
Robotics
The following level 5 modules are compulsory or optional, as indicated, for the BSc (Hons) Computing
for Robotic Systems, and BSc Computing for Robotic Systems. A DipHE Computing for Robotic
Systems requires 120 credits from the compulsory level 5 modules on this list.
Level 5
Module Module title Credits Status Semester of Pre- requisites
delivery
U08055 Professional Issues and 15 Compulsory for 1 U08007, U08008
Computer Risks BSc (Hons) and
BSc
U08025 Foundations of 15 Compulsory 1 U08009, U08606
Computation
U08026 Further Object Oriented 15 Compulsory 1 U08009
Programming
U08027 Current 15 Compulsory 2 U08007, U08008
Research
U08226 Foundations of 15 Compulsory 2 U08009
Security
U000AR Advanced 30 Compulsory 1 and 2 U000IR
Robotics

--- Page 6 ---
U00RSE Robotic Systems 15 Compulsory 2 U08009
Engineering
U08223 Data Structures 15 Compulsory 2 U08026
U08048 Requirement 15 Optional 2 U08007
Specification and
Software Design
U08028 Software Development 15 Optional 1 U08009
with C and C++
U08038 The Human Computer 15 Optional 2 U08009
Interface
U08868 Independent study Level 15 Optional 1 or 2
5
The following level 6 modules are compulsory or optional, as indicated, for the BSc (Hons)
Computing for Robotic Systems. These modules are similarly compulsory or optional for BSc Computing
for Robotic Systems, apart from U000RP Robotics Project, which is not compulsory.
Level 6
Module Module title Credits Status Semester of Pre- requisites
delivery
U000RP Robotics Project 30 Compulsory 1 and 2 U08055
U000CR Cognitive 15 Compulsory 1 U08027
Robotics
U000ML Machine 15 Compulsory 1 U08025
Learning
U08781 Machine Vision 15 Compulsory 2 U08223
U0RERS Real-time Embedded 15 Optional 2 U00RSE
Robotic Systems
U08186 Advanced Object 15 Optional 1 U08223
Oriented Programming
U08074 Reasoning about 15 Optional 2 U08025
Functional Programs
U08282 Algorithms and 15 Optional 1 U08223
Advanced Data
Structures
U08079 Optimised 15 Optional 2 U08223, U08028
Programming

--- Page 7 ---
U08085 Communicating and 15 Optional 1 or 2 U08055, U08009
Teaching Computer
Science
U08088 Independent study Level 15 Optional 1 or 2
6
The following diagram shows a typical programme of study, with slots showing where optional modules
can be taken.
Year 1 U08008
Semester 1 Modern Computer Technology U08007 U000IR
Business Introductory
U08009 U08606
Computing Robotics
Year 1 Introduction to Discrete
Semester 2 OOP Mathematics
Year 2
Semester 1 U08055 U08025 U08026
Professional Foundations of Further Object
Issues and Computation Oriented
Risks Programming
U000AR
Advanced
Robotics
Year 2
Semester 2 U08027 U00RSE U08223 Data
Current Robotic Structures
Research Systems
Engineering
U08065
Industrial Work Experience Placement (OPTIONAL)
Placement
Year
Final year
Semester 1
U000CR U000ML OPTIONAL
Cognitive Machine MODULE ONE
Robotics Learning
U000RP
Robotics
Final year
Project
Semester 2
U08226 U08781 OPTIONAL
Foundations of Machine MODULE
Security Vision TWO
4.2 Professional requirements
The programme will be submitted for accreditation by both the Institute of Engineering and Technology
(IET) and the British Computer Society (BCS) after the first cohort have completed, according to

--- Page 8 ---
IET and BCS requirements. IET and BCS criteria have been taken into account when designing the
programme.
SECTION 5: PROGRAMME DELIVERY
5.1 Teaching, Learning and Assessment
Students will attend lectures to acquire the knowledge and understanding of the key concepts in both
computing and robotics.
Practical elements of the course will enable students to practice essential skills in a variety of
contexts, and build a wide set of experiences on which to reflect and develop professional
expertise. For more technical skills, including programming, the practical elements will be based
around laboratory classes, allowing students to experiment with the technology in a controlled
environment. Essential skills of robotic system design and construction will be taught in a project
based learning environment. A problem based learning approach is taken at both levels 4 and 5,
as preparation for the final year robotics project. This project involves working in an independent
manner to solve a significant practical problem applying robotic systems engineering.
Several modules will include an element of team working, enabling students to collaborate with their
peers, developing an awareness of their own abilities as reflected by feedback from others. Team work
will also be used to assess the students’ acquisition of personal and inter-personal skills, so important
for this degree, and equally important for most career paths in the industry.
Academic Literacy will be assessed through a mixture of examination, coursework, and project outcome
assessment, testing the students’ ability to explain key concepts, and to apply them to practical problem
solving. This academic knowledge will be developed through all three years of the degree
programme, with foundation material assumed and assessed through the prerequisite structure.
Research Literacy is primarily assessed in the compulsory final year project module, but students will
have learned and practised these skills throughout the course in both theoretical, and robot problem
based learning modules. Critical Self-awareness and Personal Literacy will be supported through the
ongoing use of a Professional Development Plan (PDP). This will form a part of the students’ induction to
the degree, and will be maintained throughout their time at Oxford Brookes, culminating in a pre-career
re- flection, assessed as part of their final year project. Digital and Information Literacy is fundamental
to the academic con- tent of this degree, and will be a distinguishing feature of graduates from the
programme. For example, the use of component based system development methodologies will be
taught and assessed throughout many of the modules. Part of the assessment for these modules will be
based on the student’s ability to locate, read, and evaluate appropriate documentation for software and
hardware components, as well as their ability to document their own software and robotic systems.
Active Citizenship in modern society is increasingly mediated by technology, where digital
communication and social media forms the basis of agile citizenship, enabling disparate communities
to integrate and collaborate.
Graduates from this programme will be developing new technologies that will have a major impact in
healthcare, education, and the wider society. This has wide ranging legal, ethical, social, and
professional implications, which are assessed at each level of the programme.
The department hosts an increasingly rich array of leading edge robotics systems in purpose built
laboratories. Development environments are available for these systems that enable students to
use them in a safe and flexible manner. Problem based learning modules and the final year project
module will take full advantage of these facilities. The students also have controlled access to
manufacturing facilities to construct specialist robot components. These activities are supported by
specialist technical Instructors.

--- Page 9 ---
Compulsory modules provide a balance of assessments, appropriate to the learning outcomes of the
programme. In particular, early modules are assessed on the basis of key technical, professional and
learning skills, chosen to enable and enhance a student’s aptitude for life-long learning. As students
master key skills, the issues associated with quality products and processes will play an increasingly
important part of the module content.
The assessment strategy on this programme implements the Oxford Brookes University Assessment
Compact. The assessments on this programme have been designed to ensure that graduates possess
the necessary technical skills, shaped by the underlying theory, that are required by the robotic
engineering industry. Feedback on the assessment tasks will emphasise the achievements of the
learning outcomes of the modules and the programme. In addition, continuous formative feedback will
be given to students through the problem based learning modules, either through laboratory sessions
or individual tutorial guidance. Students will be encouraged to relate the assessment tasks with
professional activities, and to relate their achievements with professional standards.
The department is committed to inclusivity and diversity in its teaching. By the very nature of the
discipline, virtually all of our teaching material is available in an accessible format, for which we follow
best practice guidelines, and make our electronic material available before the lectures. We also
use electronic references and ebooks to further enhance accessibility. Inclusivity and diversity is also
embedded in what we teach. As such all new students have a lecture on inclusivity and diversity
as part of their induction and important inclusivity and diversity topics such as the need for
accessibility and internationalisation and how to achieve them are taught on a variety of modules
throughout the degree.
5.2 Assessment regulations
The programme conforms to the University Regulations http://www.brookes.ac.uk/regulations.
SECTION 6: ADMISSIONS
6.1 Entry criteria
Typical offers are:
A-level: BBC or equivalent, preferably including science subjects
IB Diploma: 30 points, preferably including science
Advanced Diploma: grade B including A-level grade C, preferably in a science subject and excluding
General Studies
BTEC National Diploma with a DDM profile, preferably in a science subject.
Specific entry requirements
GCSE: Mathematics at grade C minimum, and English Language at grade C minimum.
6.2 DBS checks
Not normally required.

--- Page 10 ---
SECTION 7: STUDENT SUPPORT AND GUIDANCE
Support and guidance is available to students throughout the programme, starting from when they first
arrive before the course begins. During induction week, students are given handbooks and other
documentation explaining the choices available to them on the programme, and how the systems at
Oxford Brookes work. Each student is supported throughout the course by one of the tutors, who will
be their Academic Advisor.
Throughout the programme, module descriptions and programme hand- books, alongside online
resources available through the virtual learning environment, provide a great deal of guidance for
students. In addition, they can get help and guidance from their Programme Lead, Subject
Coordinator, Academic Adviser, and the department’s Student Support Coordinators. They can also
get module specific advice from the Module Leader and any of the staff teaching on the relevant
module, and from the specialist technical Instructors.
At the University level, there are dedicated support services both for specific groups of students such
as Oxford Brookes International and the Disability Advisory Service and for all students such as
Upgrade - our study skills development/support service. A full range of support services is offered
to students seeking graduate roles, and to those looking for placements. Support includes placement
officers, career advisers and counsellors, and all students are strongly encouraged to take advantage
of these opportunities.
Each programme has at least one student representative. These are voted into position by the students
on the programme and provide a mechanism for issues and concerns to be fed back through the
department’s committee structure. Student representatives sit on departmental committees concerned
with programme management and course development and also attend monthly student forums
which are meetings specifically for the representatives to bring forward student concerns.
SECTION 8: GRADUATE EMPLOYABILITY
Graduates from this programme will develop a career in a dynamic and emerging market for advanced
robot systems across a broad spectrum of application areas. The programme gives students a thorough
grounding in the practice of computer science and integrates this with the theory and practice of robotic
systems. Graduates will be well positioned to take up careers in industry such as Robotics Engineer,
Control Engineer, and Software Engineer, with the ability to specialise in Systems Integration.
There are very strong international trends in the field of robotics, major corporations such as Apple,
Amazon and Google are investing heavily in the field beyond the already existing interest of
manufacturers and defence industries. The European Research Council has opened two new calls
for research in robotics next to the existing research targets for ICT. Growth of the robotics field, both
in terms of employment and expenditure, has been significant even through the recession. It is also
recognised as a UK essential growth market by the British government.
The external technological factors are based on the industrial technology and governmental forecasts.
The growth of the robotics market is continuing in the industrial sectors but has seen significant growth
in precision manufacturing and service sectors. A recent study of the International Federation of
Robotics has shown that the robotics industry itself is responsible for the creation of close to three
million jobs world- wide with an expected growth of another million in the next few years.

--- Page 11 ---
SECTION 9: LINKS WITH EMPLOYERS
Many modules use guest speakers from industry to illustrate the practical application of the module
material. The Current Research module in the second year (level 5) is delivered by research active
staff and guest speakers from industry and from research and development labs. Potential employers
are keen to talk to a wider spectrum of students, but want to discuss the exact nature of their industry,
as well as how the students might contribute. The department is host to at least a dozen
‘Guru’ lectures, delivered as part of the BSc in Information Technology Management for Business
(ITMB) programme, but open to all students. These are broadcast live at one ITMB university and over
the internet by the others and include Q&A sessions. Topics complement a variety of technical and
professional learning outcomes.
All students may take a year out in industry. Employers are keen to promote their companies and the
opportunities offered. Even for students who do not take a placement year, this can provide a good
insight into the type of jobs available and the skills employers are looking for. Students who do take a
work placement may bring ideas for final year projects back with them, and are noticeably more able to
contribute insights into industrial applications to the modules they take in their final year.
The department maintains close links with the university Careers. Themed ‘mini’ careers fairs are
organised by Careers with tech nology being a common theme. Students are encouraged to use the
facilities offered, including CV workshops, and practice interviews and assessment-centre activities.
An Industrial Advisory Board is run within the department, with senior employees of regional and
representative organisations (including robotics companies) as members. These are Rutherford
Appleton Lab- oratory, Webmart, OBIS, NAG, Oxfam, Oxford County Council, Omnima, Vicon,
OMG, and BT. The board is consulted on major initiatives within the department, including
programme revalidation, possible research partnerships, future trends and directions, and the
feasibility of new course offerings.
An alumni organisation has recently been formed in the department. The aim is to invite ex-students
who are now in a variety of technical and managerial roles, to network with each other, and with our
current students. It is anticipated that this organisation will be of great benefit to students starting out on
their careers, as well as for more senior alumni looking to exploit the skills and expertise of the staff
and students in the department.
Research centres within the department are actively involved with Knowledge Transfer Partnerships,
and other links with employer organisations. For example, research links with Engineered Arts Ltd,
who make Robothespian, Sony, Clearview Traffic, UKP World- wide, Nominet, WildKnowledge, and
Omnima. One of the spin-offs from these activities is the on-campus presence of industrial-based
experts in fields closely related to our degree offerings.
The department has strong links with the leading manufacturers of robotics systems in the United
Kingdom, and work closely with them on robotic system research and development.
SECTION 10: QUALITY MANAGEMENT
Indicators of quality/methods for evaluating the quality of provision
The primary indicators of quality come through regular student feedback, module reviews, external
examiners’ reports, annual and periodic programme reviews and student surveys. Student feedback
on a module is gathered using the standard university feedback form and is summarised by the
administration team within the faculty. This summary is incorporated into the module report

--- Page 12 ---
documentation used to inform the module review at the Subject Committee which is attended by the
student representative for the subject. Responses to the student feedback for each module are agreed
at this meeting. These responses are acted upon and included in the following year’s module
handbook. The minutes of the subject committee that summarise the discussion of mo ule reviews
are then presented at the Subject Examination Committee meeting where comments are invited from
the External Examiners. Any changes to module delivery and/or content which arise out of this review
process are communicated to the Subject Committee chair who has the responsibility of ensuring that
they are implemented.
Each module is assigned an Internal Moderator who has the responsibility for checking the quality of
the examination papers and the course- work specifications before they are sent to the External
Examiner for comments. Examination papers and coursework specification may be modified in the light
of the External’s comments before submission to the University Examination Office. The Internal
Moderator also verifies the quality of marking of the assessments on a module, based on a randomly
selected sample.
The programme as a whole is reviewed annually through the University Annual Review procedure.
This review assesses the quality of teaching, learning and assessment and the overall academic
standards of the programme. It takes into account student progression and compares the overall
performance of students against the University benchmark. The Annual Review considers and
responds to the comments from the External Examiners.
Programmes are reviewed normally on a six year periodic cycle in accordance with the provisions of the
quality framework set by the University.
The National Student Survey of final year students provides valuable annual feedback on the student
experience. The results of the NSS are evaluated at both Department and Faculty level and an
action plan is drawn up to ensure that the necessary changes are made to improve the student
experience.
Regular Student Forum meetings are held during semester to give the student representatives a forum
to present and discuss the concerns of the student body. The forums are attended by senior members
of the department.
The Industrial Advisory Board is valuable in involving employers and other stakeholders in the
development of all Computing programmes including Computing for Robotic Systems. The Board
meets on a regular basis to discuss the research and the teaching that is done in the department.
Comments are invited from Board members on the portfolio of programmes and on any new
programme developments.