--- Page 1 ---
Programme Specification
BSc (Hons) Software Development for Business
Valid from: Sept 2015
Faculty of Technology, Design and Environment

--- Page 2 ---
SECTION 1: GENERAL INFORMATION
Awarding body: Oxford Brookes University
Teaching institution and location: Oxford Brookes University
Final award: BSc (Hons)
Programme title: Software Development for Business
Interim exit awards and award titles: CertHE, DipHE, BSc
Brookes course code: WB
UCAS/UKPASS code: I329
JACS code: I300
Mode of delivery: Face to face
Mode/s of study: Full-time and Part-time
Language of study: English
Relevant QAA subject benchmark Computing (2007)
statement/s:
External accreditation/recognition:
(applicable to programmes with
professional body approval)
Faculty managing the programme: Technology, Design and Environment (TDE)
Date of production (or most recent Dec 2014
revision) of specification:
Page 2 of 11

--- Page 3 ---
SECTION 2: OVERVIEW AND PROGRAMME AIMS
2.1 Rationale for/distinctiveness of the programme
Software Development for Business (SDB) is a national brand. The degree has been devised as a sister
programme to the highly successful Information Technology Management for Business (ITMB) degree
because employers felt a need for a degree with a stronger focus on more technical software capabilities
and solid professional skills within a business context. The degree has been designed around the
requirements of a wide assortment of major employers including IBM, HP, Logica, Capgemini, Accenture
and Morgan Stanley. The degree is endorsed by e-skills UK, the National Sector Skills Council for the IT
and Telecommunications industry, and is run at multiple universities in the UK.
While there are many degrees which combine computing technology with business, SDB is unique in
that it has the ongoing support of these employers, who are specifically targeting graduates from the
programme as future employees. Graduates from the programme will have exactly the right mix of
technical, business and project-based skills to play key roles in the design and implementation of
computing solutions for tomorrow’s businesses. They will also develop the ability to stay up to date with
rapidly changing technologies and the competence to apply these technologies effectively in a business
context, which they will need in order to be effective practitioners in this area.
The design of our programmes is informed by state of the art research being undertaken in the
department. For example, Prof. Hong Zhu and Dr Ian Bayley, are internationally renowned academics,
outstanding in the fields of design patterns, requirements engineering and software testing. Students on
our programmes have access to highly specialised computer laboratories where they learn the practical
application of cutting edge theoretical skills and techniques.
2.2 Aim/s of the programme
The degree programme is designed to reflect industry’s changing needs and market requirements and to
ensure that students are up to date with the knowledge and practical skills that will be required of them
when they graduate. The curriculum is based on learning outcomes devised by e-skills UK which are in
turn based upon the IT professional standards, SFIA frameworks and current industry demands.
Students will learn a balanced set of computing knowledge and skills with contextual information to
enable them to apply these skills to the modern workplace. These skills will include the ability to design
and implement solutions to computing problems, knowledge of good management practice, and
understanding of the professional issues associated with software development.
Page 3 of 11

--- Page 4 ---
SECTION 3: PROGRAMME LEARNING OUTCOMES
On completion of the programme students will be able to:
3.1 Academic literacy
Contribute to the creation of new software artefacts by applying the key concepts and ways of
A1 working derived from a deep understanding of the fundamental principles of Software
Engineering as informed by an operational context.
Incorporate risk management and an understanding of information security issues in the
A2
design, development, maintenance and use of information systems.
Apply formal methods, finite state machines and other theoretical aspects of computer
A3
science to the analysis, construction and evaluation of software artefacts
Create abstractions from observed patterns encountered across the whole spectrum of real
A4
world problem domains to facilitate the analysis and synthesis of relevant solutions
3.2 Research literacy
Apply the scientific method and report findings using accepted formalisms.
B1
Identify and utilise trustworthy information sources, such as the ACM Digital Library to
B2
develop a coherent understanding of issues in the domain.
Apply appropriate empirical methods, such as software metrics, to study the creation and use
B3
of software systems.
3.3 Critical self-awareness and personal literacy
Evaluate and reflect on the evolution of their strengths and weaknesses across the range of
C1 subject based competences involved in their chosen domain through the creation and
implementation of a discipline based personal development plan.
Apply self-awareness in evaluating their impact in team based work and utilise appropriate
C2 communication and problem resolution strategies.
3.4 Digital and information literacy
Use appropriate technologies such as online libraries and databases to find, critically
D1 evaluate and utilise both non specialist (e.g. reports) and technical (e.g. APIs and RFCs)
information
Demonstrate proficiency in a range of formal and informal modes of communication such as
D2 giving presentations to groups, writing reports and writing software documentation.
3.5 Global citizenship
Demonstrate an awareness of, and work in a manner guided by, the legal, professional,
E1
ethical and social issues relevant to the IT and telecommunications industry.
Evaluate the impact of the development, use and maintenance of information systems in
E2
commercial, economic and social contexts in both national and international settings.
Page 4 of 11

--- Page 5 ---
SECTION 4: PROGRAMME STRUCTURE AND CURRICULUM
4.1 Programme structure and requirements:
The following modules are acceptable for the subject. Students must pass all modules marked
‘Compulsory’; at least one module from those marked ‘Alternative Compulsory’; as well as meeting the
usual university rules for undergraduate programmes.
LEVEL: 4
Module Semester Pre-
Module Title Credits Status
code of delivery requisites
U08007 Business Computing 30 Compulsory 1 and 2
U08008 Modern Computing Technology 30 Compulsory 1
Introduction to Object Oriented U08008
U08009 15 Compulsory 2
Programming
U08606 Discrete Mathematics 15 Compulsory 2
Software Development
U08010 15 Compulsory 1
Environments
U08011 Networking and Multimedia 15 Compulsory 2
LEVEL: 5
Semester Pre-requisites
Module
Module Title Credits Status of
code
delivery
Professional Issues and Computer
U08055 15 Compulsory 1 U08007 or U08008
Risks
U08025 Foundations of Computation 15 Compulsory 1 U08009, U08606
Further Object Oriented
U08026 15 Compulsory 1 U00009
Programming
U08027 Current Research 15 Compulsory 2 U08007, U08008
U08226 Foundations of Security 15 Compulsory 2 U08009
U08223 Data Structures 15 Compulsory 2 U08026
Requirement Specification and
U08048 15 Compulsory 2 U08007
Software Design
Software Development with C and
U08028 15 Optional 1 U08009
C++
U08054 Web Technology 15 Compulsory 1 U08008
U08049 Complex and Structured Data 15 Compulsory 2 U08009
U08038 The Human Computer Interface 15 Optional 2 U08009
U08225 Foundations of Operating Systems 15 Optional 1 U08028
U08868 Independent Study level 5 15 Optional 1 or 2 U08007, U08009
U08065 Work Experience Placement 0 Optional 1 and 2 U08055
U08036 Artificial Intelligence for Games 15 Optional 1 U08009, U08606
U08626 Graph Theory 15 Optional 1 U08603 or U08606
U08629 Further Discrete Mathematics 15 Optional 1 U08603 or U08606
Page 5 of 11

--- Page 6 ---
Approaches to Mobile Software
U08928 15 Optional 2 U08026
Development
LEVEL: 6
Module Semester Pre-
Module Title Credits Status
code of delivery requisites
U08096 Project 30 Compulsory 1 and 2 U08055
Advanced Object Oriented U08223
U08186 15 Compulsory 1
Programming
U08073 Advanced Web Technology 15 Compulsory 2 U08054
Reasoning about Functional U08025
U08074 15 Optional 2
Programs
U08072 Software Analysis and Testing 15 Compulsory 1 U08048
U08784 Software Project Management 15 Compulsory 2 U08048
Algorithms and Advanced Data U08223
U08282 15 Optional 1
Structures
U08223,
U08079 Optimised Programming 15 Optional 2
U08028
U08007,
U08088 Independent Study level 6 15 Optional 1 or 2
U08009
Communicating and Teaching U08055,
U08085 15 Optional 1 or 2
Computer Science U08009
4.2 Professional requirements
Currently none.
SECTION 5: PROGRAMME DELIVERY
5.1 Teaching, Learning and Assessment
Students will attend lectures to acquire the knowledge and understanding of the key concepts in both
networking and computing modules.
Practical elements of the course will enable students to practice essential skills in a variety of contexts,
and build a wide set of experiences on which to reflect and develop professional expertise. For more
technical skills, including programming, the practical elements will be based around laboratory classes,
allowing students to experiment with the technology in a controlled environment. Dependent on the
choice of modules, it is likely that a larger proportion of the assessment for these types of modules will
be coursework.
Several modules will include an element of team working, enabling students to collaborate with their
peers, developing an awareness of their own abilities as reflected by feedback from others. Team work
will also be used to assess the students’ acquisition of personal and inter-personal skills, so important for
this degree, and equally important for most career paths in the industry.
Academic literacy will be assessed through a mixture of examination and coursework, testing the
students’ ability to explain key concepts, and to apply them to practical problem solving. This academic
Page 6 of 11

--- Page 7 ---
knowledge will be developed through all three years of the degree programme, with foundation material
assumed and assessed through the prerequisite structure.
Research literacy is primarily assessed in the compulsory dissertation module, but students will have
learned and practised these skills in a number of earlier, core modules.
Self-awareness and personal literacy will be supported through the ongoing use of a Professional
Development Plan (PDP). This will form a part of the students’ induction to the degree, and will be
maintained throughout their time at Oxford Brookes, culminating in a pre-career reflection, assessed as
part of their dissertation.
Digital and information literacy is fundamental to the academic content of this degree, and will be a
distinguishing feature of graduates from the programme. In particular, the use of software tools for
system development will be taught and assessed throughout many of the modules, and part of the
assessment for these modules will be based on the student’s ability to locate, read, and evaluate
appropriate documentation for software tools, as well as their ability to document their own software and
system artefacts.
Effective and innovative use of ICT is also a key part of the department’s strategy. The department uses
a variety of VLE’s (tailored to what is being taught) and makes extensive use of ebooks, online videos,
podcasts and other electronic resources. The department has also developed ICT systems to help
delivery of teaching (e.g. web accessible virtual machines, XML & SVG based teaching documentation
that can be easily transformed for a variety of accessible media), learning (e.g. twitter to encourage
group working, survey monkey feedback by students at the end of each lecture on the module to gauge
student comprehension) and assessment (e.g. systems for automating feedback).
Graduates from this programme will develop a career in a world that is increasingly dependent on
information technology, and in which major social, political and economic endeavours are enabled by the
technology. Students will develop an awareness of their global citizenship through the core modules of
the programme, especially those emphasizing the evolution of modern computing technology, and
current research directions.
Core modules provide a balance of assessments, appropriate to the learning outcomes of the
programme. In particular, early core modules are assessed on the basis of key technical, professional
and learning skills, most likely to enable and enhance a student’s aptitude for life-long learning. As
students master core skills, the issues associated with quality products and processes will play an
increasingly important part of the module content. Assessment tasks will be specified in the context of
the importance of quality assurance in the IT and telecommunications industry, and criteria for success
in assessments will mirror those needed in the work place.
By paying due regard to the Oxford Brookes University Assessment Compact, the assessments on this
programme have been designed to develop learning of technical skills, shaped by the underlying theory,
and requirements of the industry. Assessment does not present students with a set of hurdles, but rather
guides them through the staged acquisition of a complex set of professional skills, so that, by the time
they graduate, they are ready to play an effective role in their chosen career. Feedback on the
assessment tasks will be provided in a timely manner, emphasizing achievement of the learning
outcomes of the modules and the programme. Students will be encouraged to relate the assessment
tasks with professional activities, and to relate their achievements with professional standards. Where
appropriate, self- and peer- assessment will be used to encourage students to involve themselves in
their own professional development.
The department is committed to inclusivity and diversity in its teaching. By the very nature of the
discipline, virtually all of our teaching material is available in an accessible format and where possible we
follow best practice guidelines and make our electronic material available before the lectures. We also
use electronic references and ebooks to further enhance accessibility. Inclusivity and diversity is also
embedded in what we teach. As such all new students have a lecture on inclusivity and diversity as part
Page 7 of 11

--- Page 8 ---
of their induction and important inclusivity and diversity topics such as the need for accessibility and
internationalization and how to achieve them are taught on a variety of modules throughout the degree.
5.2 Assessment regulations
The programme conforms to the University Regulations of the University's Undergraduate Framework.
SECTION 6: ADMISSIONS
6.1 Entry criteria
Typical offers
 A-level: BBC or equivalent, preferably including science subjects
 IB Diploma: 30 points, preferably including science
 Advanced Diploma: grade B including A-level grade C, preferably in a science subject and
excluding General Studies
 BTEC National Diploma with a DDM profile, preferably in a science subject.
Specific entry requirements
 GCSE: Mathematics at grade B minimum, and English Language at grade C minimum.
Students for whom English is not their main language also need to show that their English is at a high
enough level to succeed in their studies. The minimum English language requirements are specified at
http://www.brookes.ac.uk/international/apply/undergraduate/requirements. See also
http://www.brookes.ac.uk/international/apply/english/.
6.2 DBS checks
Not normally required
SECTION 7: STUDENT SUPPORT AND GUIDANCE
Support and guidance is available to students throughout the programme, starting from when they first
arrive before the course begins.
During induction week, students are given handbooks and other documentation explaining the choices
available to them on the programme, and how the systems at Oxford Brookes work. The Programme
Lead, Subject Coordinators and Academic Advisors are available for consultation as are the Student
Support Coordinators (SSCs).
Throughout the programme, module and dissertation handbooks alongside online resources available
through the virtual learning environment provide a great deal of guidance for students. In addition, they
can get help and guidance from their Programme Lead, Subject Coordinator, Academic Adviser (for first
years) and the department’s Student Support Coordinators. They can also get module specific advice
from the Module Leader and any of the staff teaching on the relevant module.
Page 8 of 11

--- Page 9 ---
At the University level, there are dedicated support services both for specific groups of students such as
Oxford Brookes International and the Disability Advisory Service and for all students such as Upgrade -
our study skills development/support service. A full range of support services is offered to students
seeking graduate roles, and to those looking for placements. Support includes placement officers, career
advisers and counsellors, and all students are strongly encouraged to take advantage of these
opportunities.
Each programme has at least one student representative. These are voted into position by the students
on the programme and provide a mechanism for issues and concerns to be fed back through the
department’s committee structure. Student representatives sit on departmental committees concerned
with programme management and course development and also attend monthly student forums which
are meetings specifically for the representatives to bring forward student concerns.
SECTION 8: GRADUATE EMPLOYABILITY
Graduates from the programme will be ideally equipped for a career in the computing industry.
Graduates are employed across a whole range of careers from development roles in small software
houses, to the activities of IT departments in large, multinational corporations, to more specialist roles for
providers of IT and telecommunications services. These include technical development roles, including
software design and development, specialist product support, and infrastructure and security
management roles.
According to research conducted by e-skills UK, the National Sector Skills Council for IT and
Telecommunications, the IT professional workforce in the UK, has almost doubled since 1994, and is
likely to continue growing at 5-8 times the average employment growth for the coming decade. Recent
graduates from this programme have been employed by, for example, Sophos, Logica, Jaguar/Land
Rover and IBM. Specific job titles include Software Developer, Threat Researcher, Project Manager,
Business Analyst and Web Developer.
SECTION 9: LINKS WITH EMPLOYERS
Many modules use guest speakers from industry to illustrate the practical application of the module
material. The department is host to at least 12 ‘Guru’ lectures, delivered as part of this programme.
These are broadcast live at one SDB university and over the internet by the others, and include Q&A
sessions. Topics complement a variety of technical and professional learning outcomes, and are
delivered by senior employees of the employer consortium. In addition, employers engage with the
programme by contributing to a pool of case studies based on real-world projects, which are used in the
taught course, and by offering suggestions for final year projects.
Twice a year, e-skills UK organise employer-student events spread throughout the country at which
students have the opportunity to meet employers and build important relationships. The annual events
include executive presentations, business games, sponsored competitions, skills sessions, careers fairs
and other opportunities to network. There is also a community website run by e-skills UK which is
exclusive to the participating students, university staff, alumni and supporting employers and intended to
help them connect and to give students a wider experience beyond the university in preparation for roles
in industry.
All students may take a year out in industry, and e-skills UK secure exclusive opportunities for SDB
students with the employer consortium. Employers are keen to promote their companies and the
opportunities offered. Even for students who do not take a placement year, this can provide a good
insight into the type of jobs available, and the skills employers are looking for. Students who do take a
Page 9 of 11

--- Page 10 ---
work placement may bring ideas for final year projects back with them, and are noticeably more able to
contribute insights into industrial applications to the modules they take in their final year.
SDB students at Oxford Brookes University an also take advantage of specialist careers advice. The
department maintains close links with the University Careers Office. Themed ‘mini’ careers fairs are
organised by this office – with technology being a common theme. Students are encouraged to use the
facilities offered, including CV workshops, and practice interviews and assessment-centre activities.
An Industrial Advisory Board is run within the department, with senior employees of regional and
representative organisations as members. The board is consulted on major initiatives within the
department, including programme revalidations, possible research partnerships, future trends and
directions, and the feasibility of new course offerings.
An alumni organisation has recently been formed in the department. The aim is to invite ex-students who
are now in a variety of technical and managerial roles, to network with each other, and with our current
students. It is anticipated that this organisation will be of great benefit to students starting out on their
careers, as well as for more senior alumni looking to exploit the skills and expertise of the staff and
students in the department.
Research centres within the department are actively involved with Knowledge Transfer Partnerships, and
other links with employer organisations. One of the spin-offs from these activities is the on-campus
presence of industrial-based experts in fields closely related to our degree offerings.
SECTION 10: QUALITY MANAGEMENT
Indicators of quality/methods for evaluating the quality of provision
The primary indicators of quality come through regular student feedback, module reviews, external
examiners’ reports, annual and periodic programme reviews and student surveys. Student feedback on a
module is gathered using the standard university feedback form and is summarised by the administration
team within the faculty. This summary is incorporated into the module report documentation used to
inform the module review at the Subject Committee which is attended by the student representative for
the subject. The minutes of the subject committee that summarise the discussion of module reviews are
then presented at the Subject Examination Committee meeting where comments are invited from the
External Examiners. Any changes to module delivery and/or content which arise out of this review
process are communicated to the Subject Committee chair who has the responsibility for ensuring that
they are implemented.
Each module is assigned an Internal Moderator who has the responsibility of checking the quality of the
examination papers and the coursework specifications before they are sent to the External Examiner for
comments. Examination papers and coursework specification may be modified in the light of the
External’s comments before submission to the University Examination Office. The Internal Moderator
also checks the quality of the marking of the assessments on the module based on a randomly selected
sample.
The programme as a whole is reviewed annually through the University Annual Review procedure. This
review assesses the quality of teaching, learning and assessment and the overall academic standards of
the programme. It takes into account student progression and compares the overall performance of
students against the University benchmark. The Annual Review considers and responds to the
comments from the External Examiners.
Programmes are reviewed normally on a five year periodic cycle in accordance with the provisions of the
quality framework set by the University.
Page 10 of 11

--- Page 11 ---
The National Student Survey of final year students provides valuable annual feedback on the student
experience. The results of the NSS are evaluated at both Department and Faculty level and an action
plan is drawn up to ensure that the necessary changes are made to improve the student experience.
Regular Student Forum meetings are held during semester to give the student representatives a forum
to present and discuss the concerns of the student body. The forums are attended by senior members of
the department.
The Industrial Advisory Board is valuable in involving employers and other stakeholders in the
development of the Computing programmes. The Board meet on an annual basis to discuss the
research and the teaching that is done in the department. Comments are invited from Board members
on the portfolio of programmes and on any new programme developments.
Page 11 of 11